 APW19980314.0391  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:36:00 Kenyans protest tax hikes NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) _ Thousands of laborers, students andopposition politicians on Saturday protested tax hikes imposed bytheir cash-strapped government, which they accused of failing toprovide basic services.	   Beneath a scorching sun, they sang anti-government songs andchanted ``Moi must go,'' showing their derision for PresidentDaniel arap Moi, Kenya's ruler for 20 years.	   By voice vote, the 5,000 protesters approved a resolutioncalling for the government to scrap new taxes, convene a conventionto write a new Constitution, stop harassing students and streetvendors, and halt ethnic violence.	   If the government doesn't respond to the demands, workers shouldgo on strike April 3, said Kivutha Kibwana, of the NationalConvention Assembly, a group of opposition political, church andcivic leaders who organized the rally.	   Although the crowd cheered its support, the assembly's calls forgeneral strikes have failed in the past.	   Kenyans are most angered by tax increases announced earlier thismonth to plug a widening budget deficit.	   The price of gas and diesel went up, and tax deductions wererevoked on gifts to charities and nonprofit organizations. Facedwith a strike by bank workers, Finance Minister Simeon Nyachaedelayed plans to raise taxes on cut-rate loans provided byemployers.	   Several politicians have charged that the high taxes Kenyansalready pay go into the pockets of government officials or wastefulprojects, and not into providing essential services and repairingcrumbling infrastructure.	   ``I would like Moi to explain and bring back the money he hasstolen,'' said Kenneth Matiba, who ran second to Moi in the 1992election.	   The International Monetary Fund has demanded spending cuts andtax hikes, warning that in the absence of corrective measures,Kenya's overall budget deficit for 1997-98 will reach 3.9 percentof the gross domestic product _ more than double the goal of 1.7percent.	   The IMF last year withheld a dlrs 220 million loan from Kenya,citing official corruption and mismanagement.	   In contrast to other rallies which have drawn mostly malestudents, Saturday's rally also attracted laborers, businessmen andwomen.	   They demonstrated at the Kamukunji Grounds, a grassy field inNairobi where Kenyans have often gathered to show theirdissatisfaction with the government.	   ``We, the people of Kenya, have met here several times. We havebeen beaten, we have shed blood, we have purchased the right tomeet here today with our blood,'' said John Munuve, an assemblyleader.	   The protest was peaceful, and no police were deployed.	   In July, police killed more than a dozen demonstrators pressingfor constitutional reforms before elections in December, in whichMoi won a fifth, five-year term.	   (cm-kjd) APW19980314.0392  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:36:00 Russian show of power in World Cup finale OSLO, Norway (AP) _ Russia's Alexey Prokurorov had no realchallengers as he won the 50-kilometer classical-style crosscountry World Cup race in Holmenkollen Saturday, clocking 2 hours,32 minutes, 25.3 seconds.	   Four Norwegians chased behind, but Odd Bjorn Hjelmeseth, BjornDahlie, Anders Aukland and Erling Jevne had to settle with secondto fifth places. Prokurorov was 1:18.9 ahead of Hjelmeseth.	   Thomas Alsgaard of Norway clinched the World Cup Wednesday inSweden and he had nothing to go for in the 50K, finishing 20th. Hehad 801 points in the final overall standings.	   Dahlie, who became the winningest Winter Olympian in history atNagano last month, finished second with 678 points. No other skierhas more World Cup race wins than Dahlie, a five-time overallchampion.	   Russia's Larissa Lazutina won the women's overall titlecomfortably when she defeated teammate Svetlana Nageykina by 2:23.9in the 30K classical-style race. Lazutina finished in 1:41.41.2.She topped the final standings with 773 points.	   Anita Moen-Guidon of Norway was third, 2:28.6 behind Lazutina,and Russia's Julia Chepalova fourth, 2:53.5 behind.	   Taking a fifth in the 30K, Bente Martinsen of Norway securedsecond place overall with 631 points. Italy's Stefania Belmondo,who placed 11th, secured third overall with 558 points.	   (kk-sn) APW19980314.0393  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:36:00 Long-awaited Vatican statement on Holocaust ready VATICAN CITY (AP) _ More than 10 years after it was promised ina meeting with Jewish leaders, a major Vatican document on theHolocaust is ready.	   The Vatican said Saturday the document would be made public onMonday.	   Jewish groups have been keenly awaiting the document to see ifit will continue to heal Jewish-Catholic relations.	   The last Vatican document of landmark proportions on Jewishrelations was a 1965 statement that came out of the Second VaticanCouncil under Paul VI. ``Nostra Aetate'' (In Our Times) condemnedanti-Semitism and said the Jews cannot be collectively blamed forthe crucifixion of Jesus.	   Pope John Paul II has dedicated much of his nearly 20-year-oldpapacy to improving relations of the church with Jews, whom herefers to as ``older brothers,'' after centuries of animosity.	   Word of the latest document first came on Sept. 1, 1987, duringa meeting between the pope and Jewish leaders in Castel Gandolfo,the pontiff's summer residence in the hills southeast of Rome.	   The unprecedented meeting was hurriedly called as anxiety builtin the Vatican that Jews might boycott a ceremony during the thensoon-approaching papal visit to the United States. Jews wereangered by the pope's audience earlier that year with then AustrianPresident Kurt Waldheim, who was been accused of helping deportJews to Nazi concentration camps, allegations he denied.	   The Castel Gandolfo meeting was the first time Jewishrepresentatives had sat down for informal discussions with a pope.	   Representatives at the 1987 meeting said the Vatican planned topublish a major document dealing with anti-Semitism and thegenocide of European Jews by the Nazis in World War II.	   Since that meeting, John Paul has presided over severalmilestones that improved relations with Jews, including theestablishment of diplomatic relations with Israel in 1995.	   Another ground-breaking step was the pope's visit to Rome's mainsynagogue in 1986.	   Last fall, the pope told a Vatican seminar on anti-Jewishcurrents in Christian theology that centuries of anti-Jewishprejudice had figured in ``deadening'' Christian resistance toe theNazi persecution of Jews. But, to the disappointment of some Jewishgroups, the pope steered clear of blaming the church itself.	   (fd) APW19980314.0397  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:40:00 Elaborate Laces and Belle Epoque for Christian Lacroix PARIS (AP) - Christian Lacroix took his big audience on atime-warp rollercoaster ride at his Saturday show in the Louvre'sCarrousel area.	   It started out looking vaguely back to the 1940s with some``Evita'' hairdos, short flared skirts, a few sharply-tailoredshoulders in day wear. But then, there was not much day wear, andclothes soon went into Belle Epoque evenings, via a modern ``startrek'' of fabulous pearled fabrics.	   Minimalism, so fashionable on international runways these days,just does not grab Christian Lacroix.	   ``After ten years, we must find a balance between glamour andefficiency,'' said Jean-Jacques Picart, Lacroix's partner on thebusiness side, though the house is under the LVMH (Louis VuittonMoet Hennesy) umbrella.	   The glamour will undoubtedly not die out.	   There were few clothes for day wear in this dressy collectionthat tended to the too-fussy, as Lacroix often does. What to makeof a trouser suit with its tweedy masculine trousers and ruffledlace-organza Victorian blouse?	   Or the very tight sequin-spattered knit dress with its faux minkappliques and high feathered hat? And with the spangled tightsshown with all the short clothes, the show often teetered betweenthe boulevard hooker territory and the disco.	   But there were many wonderful moments here, including anexcellent short carmine moire silk coat tied at the waist over asky-blue lace knit dress.	   Big fur collars and long tweed coats, the gold-blacktiger-striped lame trapeze coat, some of the great frock coats, anda remarkable tie-dye effect silk in skirts and floppy 1930s pants,looked like winners.	   Sharply-fitted evening suits with pants had large, structuredshoulders. Lacroix has evolved quite far away from his famous shawland sloped shoulder looks of opening days over 10 years ago.	   The most modern-looking clothes were simply-cut soft gowns andtrouser outfits in black, gray and white pearled and diamantefabrics with a milky way effect.	   And the party scene was complete in the Victorians or southernbelle evening styles capped by a fabulous red velvet gown withcrinolines and decollete a la Scarlet O'Hara, draped like curtainsand topped by a little red topper riding hat.	   Earlier, Jean-Paul Gaultier went yet again to the Arctic Circlefor inspiration - as he did some years ago - but Friday night'soffering was brilliant.	   The atmosphere was hot and smoky, a bar scene created in theWagram dance hall, notorious for the ``Last Tango in Paris.''	   But the models, including Naomi Campbell, were dressed up likeNanook of the North as they cavorted, smoked, drank champagne andkibitzed with the audience at the bar.	   There were many of those Siberian hats with flaps, fur, evensequins at the end, and the parkas were very good-looking, manyquite tailored, in black and white.	   Some of the impressions were of hippies from outer space, but inspite of some crazy combinations like a layered look with longethnic skirt, fringed tunic and striped blazer, there was much toadmire.	   The folklore Nordic knits were handsome, in sweaters, orknee-length pants, and might have been topped by something like asuper taffeta full coat.	   An excellent full gray knit sleeveless tunic with its straightwhite pants was another winner. A double-faced gray coat with itstrouser suit was impeccable.	   For evening wear at the North Pole, girls could dress up inhandsome Nordic sweaters and full iridescent taffeta skirts, or topone of the full striped skirts with a terrific short beige trenchcoat.	   ``I loved the show,'' said eminent English fashion historianColin McDowell. ``It was indeed Nanook of the North - with a traceof existentialism.''	   (sp-dgs) 	    APW19980314.0398  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:40:00 Niemann breaks women's world 3,000-meter speedskating record HEERENVEEN, Netherlands (AP) _ Germany's Gunda Niemann smashedthe 3,000-meter speedskating world record Saturday in a time of 4minutes 5.08 seconds, shattering the old record of fellow GermanClaudia Pechstein which stood at 4:07.13.	   Niemann began her race calmly and picked up pace in the middlelaps before accelerating to the new record in the closing two lapsat the indoor Thialf ice stadium.	   Racing in the next pair, Pechstein skated 4:07.36 for secondplace in the race, a time that left her second to Niemann in theall-round championship with just Sunday's 5,000-meter race left.	   (mc)	    APW19980314.0399  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:41:00 Niemann breaks women's world 3,000-meter speedskating record HEERENVEEN, Netherlands (AP) _ Germany's Gunda Niemann smashedthe 3,000-meter speedskating world record Saturday in a time of 4minutes 5.08 seconds, shattering the old record of fellow GermanClaudia Pechstein which stood at 4:07.13.	   Niemann began her race calmly and picked up pace in the middlelaps before accelerating to the new record in the closing two lapsat the indoor Thialf ice stadium.	   Racing in the next pair, Pechstein skated 4:07.36 for secondplace in the race, a time that left her second to Niemann in theall-round championship with just Sunday's 5,000-meter race left. 	    APW19980314.0402  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:46:00 Russian show of power in World Cup finale OSLO, Norway (AP) _ Russia's Alexey Prokurorov had no realchallengers as he won the 50-kilometer classical-style crosscountry World Cup race in Holmenkollen Saturday, clocking 2 hours,32 minutes, 25.3 seconds.	   Four Norwegians chased behind, but Odd Bjorn Hjelmeseth, BjornDahlie, Anders Aukland and Erling Jevne had to settle with secondto fifth places. Prokurorov was 1:18.9 ahead of Hjelmeseth.	   Thomas Alsgaard of Norway clinched the World Cup Wednesday inSweden and he had nothing to go for in the 50K, finishing 20th. Hehad 801 points in the final overall standings.	   Dahlie, who became the winningest Winter Olympian in history atNagano last month, finished second with 678 points. No other skierhas more World Cup race wins than Dahlie, a five-time overallchampion.	   Russia's Larissa Lazutina won the women's overall titlecomfortably when she defeated teammate Svetlana Nageykina by 2:23.9in the 30K classical-style race. Lazutina finished in 1:41.41.2.She topped the final standings with 773 points.	   Anita Moen-Guidon of Norway was third, 2:28.6 behind Lazutina,and Russia's Julia Chepalova fourth, 2:53.5 behind.	   Taking a fifth in the 30K, Bente Martinsen of Norway securedsecond place overall with 631 points. Italy's Stefania Belmondo,who placed 11th, secured third overall with 558 points. 	    APW19980314.0405  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:47:00 Indian golfer moves ahead of Americans CALCUTTA, India (AP) _ Firoz Ali of India shot a third-roundfive under par Saturday to move ahead of the Americans whodominated the first two rounds and take a 3-stroke lead in the dlrs300,000 Classic India Open.	   Though it put him in the lead, Ali's round of 67 could not matchthe 64 by Canadian Rick Todd, which was just one stroke off thecourse record at the Royal Calcutta Golf Club.	   Following Ali's total of 204 was Dean Wilson with 207, and TimStraub and Scott Rowe with 208.	   ``Firoz played spectacularly today and if he plays another roundlike that tomorrow, it will be difficult to catch him,'' said Dean. APW19980314.0413  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:51:00 Prinosil beats Siemerink to make it to the final COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) _ Germany's David Prinosil booked aplace in the final of the dlrs 210,000 Copenhagen Open on Saturdayby beating No. 4 seed Jan Siemerink of the Netherlands 6-3, 7-6(7-5).	   In the other semifinal, second seed Magnus Gustafsson of Swedenbeat Kenneth Carlsen of Denmark 6-4, 5-7, 6-2.	   Prinosil played a consistent game to defeat the poorly servingSiemerink. Earlier in the tournament, the 25-year-old German hadeliminated top seeded Thomas Johansson of Sweden.	   The last time Prinosil was in an ATP Final was when he won inOstrava in 1996. APW19980314.0414  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:53:00 Fire tears through new St. Petersburg building MOSCOW (AP) _ Fire-fighters battled 7 hours Saturday toextinguish a blaze that raced through a newly constructed officebuilding in St. Petersburg, according to media reports.	   No injuries were reported in the fire, but 40 percent of thebuilding was destroyed, the ITAR-Tass news agency said. The top sixfloors of the 14-story building were completely gutted and thelower floors were inundated with water sprayed from the 52fire-trucks working at the scene.	   No monetary estimate for the damage was given	   Construction of the glass-and-concrete building, which housesSt. Petersburg's Institute of Urban Studies, a furniture showroomand other businesses, was completed just last summer.	   Investigators are working on the theory that the fire was causedby an electric heater, ITAR-Tass reported, citing police Gen. Maj.Anatoly Ponidelko.	   The city's steam-heating system in the neighborhood had been cutoff several days ago for non-payment of utility bills, Russianstate television said.	   (ji) 	    APW19980314.0418  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:54:00 One hurt in blast in northern Israel JERUSALEM (AP) _ A man was injured Saturday in an explosion atthe bus station in the small northern Israeli town of Afula, policesaid. Israel radio said said the man's injuries were serious.	   He was seen handling a cardboard box when there was a suddenexplosion, injuring him in the hands and eyes, the radio said.	   The man was taken to a hospital and the police wereinvestigating. No further details were immediately available.	   The Afula bus station was the scene of a major terror attack inApril 1994, when a car rigged with explosives blew up, killing ninepeople and injuring 45. The militant Muslim group Hamas claimedresponsibility.	   When Saturday's blast occurred, however, the station was almostdeserted. There is no public transport in most Israeli cities onthe Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown Friday and ends atsundown on Saturday. APW19980314.0419  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:55:00 Niemann breaks women's world 3,000-meter speedskating record HEERENVEEN, Netherlands (AP) _ Germany's Gunda Niemann smashedthe 3,000-meter speedskating world record Saturday in a time of 4minutes 5.08 seconds, shattering the old record of fellow GermanClaudia Pechstein which stood at 4:07.13.	   Niemann began her race calmly and picked up pace in the middlelaps before accelerating to the new record in the closing two lapsat the indoor Thialf ice stadium.	   Racing in the next pair, Pechstein skated 4:07.36 for secondplace in the race, a time that left her second to Niemann in theall-round championship with just Sunday's 5,000-meter race left.	   A third German, Anni Friesinger, was third in the 3,000 metersin a time of 4:11.57.	   ``This is such a great tournament. Lots of people are skatingpersonal bests and that motivated me,'' Niemann said.	   Earlier Saturday, reigning men's world all-round champion IdsPostma of the Netherlands virtually guaranteed he will retain histitle by narrowly beating Dutch rival Rintje Ritsma in a thrilling1,500-meter race.	   Drawn together in the race's last pairing, Postma clocked1:48.85 to edge Ritsma's time of 1:48.86 and complete a sweep ofthe first three of races in the four-distance all-roundchampionship.	   ``It was a great fight,'' Postma said. ``The (time) differencewas actually nothing.''	   Ritsma conceded that the title is now almost certainly out ofhis reach.	   With just Sunday's 10,000-meter race to go, the difference inthe men's cumulative times ``is enough for Ids,'' Ritsma said.	   ``He will have to do something very strange and I will have todo something very strange'' for Postma not to win the all-roundtitle, Ritsma added.	   Italian veteran Roberto Sighel was third in the 1,500 race in1:51.19.	   In the day's first race, the women's 1,500 meters, defendingall-round champion Niemann also pushed Pechstein into second,powering to victory in 1:58.69 seconds.	   U.S. skater Chris Witty also ducked under the two-minute mark toland third place in 1:59.46.	   (mc)	    APW19980314.0423  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:58:00 In troubled Yugoslav province, Serbs, too, are victims PRISTINA, Yugoslavia (AP) _ He's a company director who wearsthe best suits, collects fine art and counts the influential amonghis friends. She's a worn-out refugee who sleeps under a borrowedblanket.	   Elsewhere, Boban Boskovic, chief executive of the Plastikafactory, would have nothing in common with Ilinka Durbaba, stuck ina refugee camp for nearly three years. In Kosovo, they shoulder acommon burden.	   They are Serbs in a part of Serbia controlled by a hostileAlbanian majority that outnumbers them 9 to 1. And while theAlbanians groan under repressive Serbian rule, the average Serb inKosovo feels threatened by the specter of a secessionist war.	   The United States and other world powers consider the KosovoAlbanians victims, and back their struggle for autonomy, if not forindependence.	   The Albanians lost the right to virtual self-rule in 1989. Mostrecently, Serb police killed at least 80 of them in a brutaltwo-week crackdown on militant separatists.	   As sympathy grows for the Albanians, hostility rises againstSerbs, who often are equated with their repressive government.	   But in Kosovo, Serbs, too, are victims.	   Most work at low-paying government jobs or state companies thatoften cannot meet payroll. Albanians, victims of mass firings inthe early 1990s, now dominate the private sector, their prosperityreflected in large houses and modern stores.	   Kosovo Serbs are a despised minority on home ground. But theycannot leave _ to keep them there, the government has forbiddenproperty sales.	   Milica Boskovic, the director's wife, flinches when an Albanianboy spits at her.	   ``This isn't the worst of it,'' she says. Other Serb parentsnod. They walk their children to school, fearful of abuse fromAlbanian kids. The school is split by a wall _ one side for Serbs,the other for Albanians.	   ``Their kids swear at our kids,'' says Mrs. Boskovic, mother of7- and 8-year old boys.	   At the Plastika factory, Boban Boskovic says he does what he canfor harmony _ half his work force is ethnic Albanian.	   Loyalties were forged after the plant burned down in 1983, oneof several fires thought set by Albanian separatists. Boskoviccalled a workers' meeting ahead of rebuilding.	   ``I told them, `Here, I am your Tito, your Milosevic, yourRugova,''' said Boskovic, referring respectively to the leader ofthe former communist Yugoslavia, who gave Kosovo automony; hissuccessor who took it away, and the ethnic Albanian leader nowseeking independence. ``You've all got mouths to feed, whether theyare Serb or Albanian.''	   Born and raised in Kosovo, Boskovic is proud of his roots in theprovince, the cradle of Serb culture and Orthodox religion.	   Pictures in his lavish office show him with archbishops, Serbroyalty _ and Zeljko Raznatovic, a.k.a Arkan, the Serbultranationalist whose troops are accused of atrocities in Croatia,Bosnia, and, most recently, Kosovo.	   ``Where would I go?'' he replies, when asked if he iscontemplating leaving.	   ``We must talk to them,'' he says of the Albanians. ``We shouldhave talked to them a long time ago.''	   At the hairdresser's, Serb women discuss options. Stay or go?	   They reflect on their good times in the 1950s and 1960s, andwhat they view as Tito's greatest mistake _ giving Kosovo autonomyin 1974. That, a high Albanian birthrate and an influx fromneighboring Albania left the Serbs cornered by the 1980s.	   ``We had everything,'' says Zhivka Savic, 65. ``They hadnothing.''	   The reverse seems true now. The two-chair salon is squeezedamong modern, well-equipped Albanian shops.	   ``Compare my little house to a six-story Albanian one,'' Mrs.Savic rails, ignoring warnings from other women to hush because ofthe thin wall and the Albanian shop next door. ``Sell to anAlbanian? In a minute, if they let us.''	   ``In my street, ... Albanian kids have started chanting `we arethe terrorists.''	   Hairdresser Milanka Milentijevic says 80 percent of hercustomers were Albanians in the 1970s.	   ``Now, I have one a month. Business is down 95 percent,'' shesays. ``Even the Serbs who could afford to come left a long timeago.''	   About 200 of her relatives have left the area, but Mrs.Milentijevic wants to stay _ for now. She describes Albanianacquaintances as ``friends in hiding.''	   ``We talk about everything. Families, politics,'' says Mrs.Milentijevic, 50. ``Sometimes we even joke about the situation.''	   Mrs. Durbaba, the refugee, contemplates her options. Sitting ona cot in a space blanketed off from the next family, she says shestarted running at 3, from the Germans during World War II. In1995, she fled her town of Knin in Croatia, when Croats recapturedit from rebel Serbs, who had seized it in 1991.	   Is it time to run again?	   ``I have nowhere to go,'' she says, sobbing.	   She turns to a poster of Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslavpresident. He stoked the war that forced her to flee Knin and hisdecision to abolish Kosovo's autonomy radicalized the Albanians.	   ``I love him,'' says Mrs. Durbaba. ``He's good for everybody wholoves peace.'' APW19980314.0425  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:00:00 Welshman takes one-stroke lead in Kenya Open NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) _ Welshman Mark Litton hit a brilliant roundof six-under-par 65 Saturday to take a one-stroke lead in the thirdround of the Tusker Kenya Open at the 71-par Muthaiga Golf Club.	   Litton dropped a shot in the 377-meter (413-yard) par-four firsthole, but recovered to sink a birdie two in the second hole beforeplaying level par on the par-four third in a round that featuredseven birdies.	   Litton's playing partner, Kenyan Jacob Okello, was tied forsecond with Argentine Ricardo Gonzalez on 10-under-par 203 afterthe three rounds, a shot behind the leader.	   ``It's a good test, and if you drive well things work out justfine,'' Litton said. ``I've had a wonderful partnership with Okelloand I just hope I play the same in the final round.''	   Okello, 26, said he was pleased by his putting in the thirdround. ``I got a few tips from my fellow Kenyan professionals andmy putting has improved, although the fairways have been a bitdifficult,'' he said.	   Third on seven-under-par 206 after the third round was England'sJohn Mellor. Four players finished the round on six-under-par 207.	   Fifty-six of the 146 players who teed off Thursday made the cutFriday, which was two-over-par 144.	   The sixth hole is the longest on the 6,250-meter (6,836-yard)Muthaiga course where the fourth and final round will be playedSunday.	   The Kenya Open is a round of the European Challenge Tour. Theleading 15 players in the tour rankings at the end of the seasonwill earn full European Tour membership for the 1999 season.	   Past tournament winners include Seve Ballesteros, Jose MariaCanizares and Ian Woosnam.	   (em-kjd) APW19980314.0431  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:04:00 Army deployed to fight fires in rainforest GEORGETOWN, Guyana (AP) _ The Second Army Batallion will be sentto this South American country's Amazonian rainforest to help fightforest fires resulting from an El Nino-fueled drought, thegovernment announced Saturday.	   Soldiers will join firefighters and Forestry Commission rangersin trying to contain the blazes, which have been burning for amonth in the southern and western parts of the country.	   If the local teams are unable to control the fires, Guyana maylook beyond its borders for assistance.	   ``The situation is not so good,'' said Forestry Minister SatydeoSawh. ``The fires are raging and we may need help.''	   Guyana, on the northeast shoulder of South America, has beensuffering a prolonged dry spell, blamed on El Nino-caused changesin the weather pattern, since July. Now, in the height of the dryseason, the forests are susceptible to fire and significantrainfall is unlikely before June.	   The lack of rainfall has already affected such varied industriesas rice farming and gold mining.	   Some of the 35,000 residents of the bauxite mining town ofLinden, 70 miles (113 kilometers) south of Georgetown, say thesmoke is beginning to affect them. Residents are normally botheredby the dust pollution from the mining. 	    APW19980314.0434  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:07:00 Long-awaited Vatican statement on Holocaust ready VATICAN CITY (AP) _ More than 10 years after it was promised ina meeting with Jewish leaders, a major Vatican document on theHolocaust is ready.	   The Vatican said Saturday that the document, produced by theCommission for Relations with Judaism, would be made public onMonday.	   Jewish groups worldwide have been keenly awaiting the documentto see if it will continue to heal Jewish-Catholic relations andhave at times issued calls for its release to be speeded up.	   The last Vatican document of landmark proportions on Jewishrelations was a 1965 statement that came out of the Second VaticanCouncil under Paul VI. ``Nostra Aetate'' (In Our Times) condemnedanti-Semitism and said the Jews cannot be collectively blamed forthe crucifixion of Jesus.	   Pope John Paul II has dedicated much of his nearly 20-year-oldpapacy to improving relations of the church with Jews, whom herefers to as ``older brothers,'' after centuries of animosity.	   Word of the latest document first came on Sept. 1, 1987, duringa meeting between the pope and Jewish leaders in Castel Gandolfo,the pontiff's summer residence in the hills southeast of Rome.	   The unprecedented meeting was hurriedly called as anxiety builtin the Vatican that Jews might boycott a ceremony during the thensoon-approaching papal visit to the United States. Jews wereangered by the pope's audience earlier that year with then AustrianPresident Kurt Waldheim, who was been accused of helping deportJews to Nazi concentration camps, allegations he denied.	   The Castel Gandolfo meeting was the first time Jewishrepresentatives had sat down for informal discussions with a pope.	   Representatives at the 1987 meeting said the Vatican planned topublish a major document dealing with anti-Semitism and thegenocide of European Jews by the Nazis in World War II.	   Since that meeting, John Paul has presided over severalmilestones that improved relations with Jews, including theestablishment of diplomatic relations with Israel in 1995. Theagreement to go ahead and forge ties came in December 1993.	   Another ground-breaking step was the pope's visit to Rome's mainsynagogue in 1986.	   Last fall, the pope told a Vatican seminar on anti-Jewishcurrents in Christian theology that centuries of anti-Jewishprejudice had figured in ``deadening'' Christian resistance toe theNazi persecution of Jews. But, to the disappointment of some Jewishgroups, the pope steered clear of blaming the church itself.	   (fd) 	    APW19980314.0435  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:07:00 Underground political party has big dreams for China BEIJING (AP) _ A small and secretive Chinese opposition partyhas ambitious goals: bringing free elections, political democracyand greater civil liberties than currently allowed by the rulingCommunist Party, a Beijing-based member of the underground groupsays.	   The 29-year-old member of the China Democratic Justice Partystopped short of saying that they want to see the communistsoverthrown. Instead, he said they wanted to be able to compete onan equal footing with them in elections and ``let the people decidewho rules.''	   ``When we unite, we won't just be a few hundred or a fewthousand people. We'll be able to grow into several million people,several tens of million,'' he said in an interview, the first by aChina-based member of the group.	   ``We'll be like the Polish Solidarity union movement, anationwide civil power.''	   The organization announced its formation last month in faxes toforeign reporters in Beijing. It said it was headquartered withexiled Chinese dissidents in the United States and had members inChina. Until now, however, there had been no way of confirming thegroup's existence with members inside China.	   The group is the first known opposition party organized bydissidents in China and overseas. But, forced to operate secretlyin small cells, it does not for the moment appear to present anyobvious threat to the communists' nearly 50-year rule.	   China's constitution allows for freedom of association and otherliberties. But working to change the communist-run system isillegal, and the party relentlessly punishes dissent.	   Thus, party members in China work in small cells that operateindependently of each other to avoid detection, the party membersaid.	   He identified himself as Chen Jin, a pseudonym he said he hasused when signing petitions to the government calling fordemocratic change.	   He was generally circumspect about his own history. He said hegrew up in northeast China, studied in Beijing, where he works as abusiness manager, and took part in democracy protests in 1989 thatstarted on Beijing's Tiananmen Square and spread to other cities.	   He said there were 17 members in his party cell, one of three inBeijing. The other members range in age and include universitystudents, government bureaucrats, professors, two laborers and alawyer, he said.	   He estimated the two other cells in Beijing have a similarnumber of members. Another cell operates in Changchun and anotheris planned in Harbin, he said.	   Both cities are in China's northeast, where dissatisfaction overlayoffs at run-down state firms is mounting.	   According to New York-based dissident Fu Shenqi, a spokesman forthe group, the party has at least 100 members in five to 10branches in provinces and cities across China.	   The party's demands include freedom of speech, freedom ofassembly, freedom to protest, freedom of the press, and freedom toset up opposition parties, the Beijing-based member said.	   ``We all have a common conviction _ bringing politicaldiversification and political democracy to China,'' he said.	   Asked how the party would recruit members, he described asomewhat vague process whereby party members would start bychatting to ordinary Chinese _ he mentioned taxi drivers, factoryworkers, entrepreneurs and soldiers _ about issues of publicconcern.	   These could include official corruption within the party andgovernment, layoffs, or other sources of dissatisfaction that havearisen in China's two-decade shift from a planned to a marketeconomy.	   Through such contacts they would look for suitable people tojoin the party, he said.	   ``If after one meeting, two meetings, many meetings, we discoverthat they think like us and are willing to operate in anorganization, then they will become a target for us,'' he said.	   ``When we are strong, the Communist Party will have lost itsruling base, the army won't carry out its orders,'' he added. ``Atthat time, we'll use negotiations to resolve the problems insociety.'' 	    APW19980314.0442  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:15:00 Questions linger two decades after assassination in Italy ROME (AP) _ Twenty years after terrorists kidnapped formerPremier Aldo Moro and left his bullet-riddled body in the back of aparked car, one question still haunts Italy: Could he have beensaved?	   The anniversary of the kidnapping is being marked by televisionprograms, new books, a play and published interviews with convictedmembers of the Red Brigades who took part in the crime.	   But the ex-terrorists have only added fuel to the debate aboutthe assassination, which became the defining moment in Italy'sreign of terrorism in the 1970s and early 80s.	   Moro was abducted in Rome on March 16, 1978, in an ambush thatkilled five of his bodyguards. His body turned up 55 days later ina car parked around the corner from the headquarters of both theChristian Democrat and Communist parties.	   Moro had just negotiated an agreement for the Communists andChristian Democrats, the leading political forces in Italy at thattime, to collaborate.	   It was a historic agreement, a break with the long-standingpolicy backed by the United States to keep Western Europe's largestcommunist party away from power.	   Those political parties no longer exist, done in by scandals andan end to the Cold War that also took the bite out of theideological divisions that so marked Italian society during theyears of bullets and bombs.	   The kidnapping and slaying stiffened Italy's resolve to fightdomestic terrorism, marking the beginning of the end to urbanguerrilla gangs in the country.	   Then-premier Giulio Andreotti, like Moro a Christian Democratand now on trial on charges of favoring the mafia, insisted earlierthis month that the government did everything it could.	   ``To free Moro, we activated everybody, including the armedforces,'' Andreotti said in a roundtable organized by the Corrieredella Sera newspaper.	   The government stuck to hard-line policy, refusing anycompromise, such as freeing terrorist prisoners despite Moro'sincreasingly desperate pleas.	   Mario Moretti, convicted as the triggerman, was quoted as sayingthat ``just a signal, the recognition of the existence of politicalprisoners'' would have been enough.	   ``Instead, no one knew the right thing to do and we made amistake. We all made a mistake,'' he was quoted as saying by theweekly Vita.	   But Anna Braghetti, another former Red Brigade member, gave adifferent version, saying the decision to kill Moro came after apoll among 200 members of the gang.	   The group could not justify sparing Moro's life, given that thegovernment was not compromising and so many of his bodyguards werekilled in an attempt to kidnap him, Braghetti was quoted as sayingby Corriere della Sera.	   Attempts to close the dark chapter of the ``years of lead'' _ asthe terrorist period is called _ by an amnesty for those convictedof terrorist crimes have been stalled in parliament. Opposition isstrong to clemency for ``blood crimes'' like the Moro killing. 	    APW19980314.0443  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:18:00 One hurt in blast in northern Israel JERUSALEM (AP) _ A man was injured Saturday in an explosion atthe bus station in the small northern Israeli town of Afula, policesaid. Israel radio said the man's injuries were serious.	   He was seen handling a cardboard box when there was a suddenexplosion, injuring his hands and eyes, the radio said.	   The man was taken to a hospital and the police wereinvestigating. No further details were immediately available.	   The Afula bus station was the scene of a major terror attack inApril 1994, when a car rigged with explosives blew up, killing ninepeople and injuring 45. The militant Muslim group Hamas claimedresponsibility.	   When Saturday's blast occurred, however, the station was almostdeserted. There is no public transport in most Israeli cities onthe Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown Friday and ends atsundown on Saturday. 	    APW19980314.0452  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:29:00 Georgia and Turkey announced start of oil project TBILISI, Georgia (AP) _ Georgia and Turkey signed an accord onSaturday launching a cooperative project to transport oil fromAzerbaijan's Caspian oil fields across Georgia to Turkey.	   Five oil-producing countries of the Caspian Sea region hadapproved the route earlier this month.	   The agreement, which will include the construction of aTrans-Caucasian pipeline, was signed Saturday by Georgian PresidentEduard Shevardnadze and Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz of Turkey.	   Turkey has long campaigned for a pipeline running fromAzerbaijan's capital Baku through Georgia to the TurkishMediterranean port of Ceyhan.	   Turkey's strongest competitor is Russia, which has been vyingfor pipelines to traverse its territory as well. The first oil fromAzerbaijan started flowing through a Russian pipeline last fall.	   On Friday, Georgia and Turkey signed inter-governmental accordson border cooperation in the Black Sea and exchange programs insport, education, science and culture, the ITAR-Tass news agencyreported.	   (pvs/ji) APW19980314.0454  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:30:00 Town dedicates memorial garden to school massacre victims DUNBLANE, Scotland (AP) _ Townspeople dedicated a gardenSaturday in memory of 16 children and a teacher killed by asuicidal gunman two years ago.	   ``This garden is a beautiful place in which we can all rememberthe loved ones we lost,'' said Mick North, whose daughter Sophiewas among the slain children.	   ``The cheerfulness and brightness of a Primary One classroom isevoked by each one of the pebbles in the pools, you can almost hearthe chatter of children in the sound of the fountain,'' he said atthe dedication ceremony.	   A local man, 43-year-old Thomas Hamilton, barged into theprimary school on March 13, 1996 and opened fire on a class in thegym. In addition to those killed, he injured 12 other children andtwo teachers before killing himself.	   Britain has since banned handgun ownership.	   The memorial garden, designed by the victims' families, featuresa bronze plaque with the names of the dead, a cherry tree and avariety of flowers.	   Another memorial to the Dunblane victims, a sculpture of stoneand wood, is to be unveiled April 5 in the National Forest innorthern England.	   (rb) APW19980314.0458  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:32:00 Lebanon marks 20 years of Israeli occupation with attacks, rallies BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) _ Lebanese guerrillas attacked Israeliforces in southern Lebanon on Saturday while civilians flocked torallies around the country to mark 20 years of Israeli occupation.	   Lebanon's president, prime minister and national assemblyspeaker held talks with Syrian leaders in Damascus on Israel'sproposal to withdraw its 1,500 troops from southern Lebanon.	   The talks were seen as aimed at coordinating the Lebanese andSyrian views ahead of a visit by U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan.Both Beirut and Damascus have already rejected Jerusalem'sproposal, which makes a withdrawal conditional on Lebaneseguarantees that guerrillas would not attack northern Israel.	   Guerrillas of the Iranian-backed Hezbollah group mounted attackson positions of Israeli troops and their allied Lebanese militiamenin the occupied zone, Lebanese officials said. There was no word oncasualties.	   Hezbollah and the Hezbollah-backed Lebanese Resistance Brigadessaid in statements issued here that their guerrillas had attackedpositions at Sojod, Hardon, Baarchit, Hadatha and Soweida.	   Thousands turned out for rallies in Beirut, and the cities ofSidon and Tyre and the town of Nabatiyeh in the south.	   In Sidon, the capital of southern Lebanon, local politicianssuch as the prime minister's sister, legislator Bahia Hariri,denounced Israel's occupation and called for the implementation ofU.N. Security Council Resolution 425. Passed in 1978, theresolution calls on Israel to withdraw its forces from Lebanon.	   Speakers vowed that guerrillas would continue their``resistance'' against Israeli forces until the occupation ended.	   In Beirut, legislator Mohammed Beydoun, warned the crowd thatIsrael might attack Lebanon again ``with the aim of torpedoingresolution 425.''	   A group calling itself the March 14 Solidarity Day with OccupiedSouthern Lebanon published a full-page advertisement in The DailyStar which described the world's failure to make Israel comply withresolution 425 as a ``record of disgrace.''	   It was on March 14, 1978, that some 25,000 Israeli troopsinvaded south Lebanon in a campaign against Palestinian guerrillas,who had attacked a town in northern Israel. Five days later, theSecurity Council adopted Resolution 425.	   Huge yellow banners hung across intersections in Beirut wheremotorists strung yellow ribbons from their aerials. In Lebanon,yellow is the symbol of support for resolution 425.	   In the eastern city of Baalbek, government buildings sportedyellow banners and Hezbollah supporters roamed the streetssoliciting funds for ``the resistance.'' Outside the city,Hezbollah activists burned Israel's flag on the main road.	   Thousands of Lebanese civilians and militants and nearly 900Israeli soldiers have been killed since 1978. Since 1985 Israel hasoccupied a strip of land along the border amounting to 10 percentof Lebanese territory.	   Israel, which maintains the strip with some 2,500 localmilitiamen, says the zone is a necessary buffer against guerrillaattacks. But increasing casualties _ a record 39 Israeli troopswere killed in action in Lebanon last year _ have generatedgrassroots pressure among Israelis for the government to make aunilateral withdrawal. APW19980314.0460  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:33:00 Man seriously hurt in blast in northern Israel JERUSALEM (AP) _ A man was seriously injured Saturday in anexplosion outside the bus station in the small northern Israelitown of Afula, an ambulance official said.	   The blast blew off both the man's hands, Israeli army radioquoted Eli Bin, deputy head of the Afula ambulance station, assaying. The man appeared to be in his early 50s, the radio said.	   Police said the explosion took place in a public park justoutside the bus station.	   Before the man was taken into surgery, he said he had spotted acardboard box that he thought looked suspicious and was examiningit when it exploded, army radio said.	   Israeli police frequently tell people to be on the alert forsuspicious objects that might be bombs planted by Palestinianmilitant groups. However, police always urge the public not totouch any such objects, but to report them to the nearest policestation.	   The Afula bus station was the scene of a major terror attack inApril 1994, when a car rigged with explosives blew up, killing ninepeople and injuring 45. The militant Muslim group Hamas claimedresponsibility.	   When Saturday's blast occurred, however, the bus station wasnearly deserted. There is no public transport in most Israelicities on the Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown Friday andends at sundown on Saturday.