 APW19980314. 0391  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:36:00 Kenyans protest tax hikes NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) _ Thousands of laborers, students andopposition politicians on Saturday protested tax hikes imposed bytheir cash-strapped government, which they accused of failing toprovide basic services. 	   Beneath a scorching sun, they sang anti-government songs andchanted ``Moi must go,'' showing their derision for PresidentDaniel arap Moi, Kenya's ruler for 20 years. 	   By voice vote, the 5,000 protesters approved a resolutioncalling for the government to scrap new taxes, convene a conventionto write a new Constitution, stop harassing students and streetvendors, and halt ethnic violence. 	   If the government doesn't respond to the demands, workers shouldgo on strike April 3, said Kivutha Kibwana, of the NationalConvention Assembly, a group of opposition political, church andcivic leaders who organized the rally. 	   Although the crowd cheered its support, the assembly's calls forgeneral strikes have failed in the past. 	   Kenyans are most angered by tax increases announced earlier thismonth to plug a widening budget deficit. 	   The price of gas and diesel went up, and tax deductions wererevoked on gifts to charities and nonprofit organizations.  Facedwith a strike by bank workers, Finance Minister Simeon Nyachaedelayed plans to raise taxes on cut-rate loans provided byemployers. 	   Several politicians have charged that the high taxes Kenyansalready pay go into the pockets of government officials or wastefulprojects, and not into providing essential services and repairingcrumbling infrastructure. 
	   The International Monetary Fund has demanded spending cuts andtax hikes, warning that in the absence of corrective measures,Kenya's overall budget deficit for 1997-98 will reach 3. 9 percentof the gross domestic product _ more than double the goal of 1. 7percent. 	   The IMF last year withheld a dlrs 220 million loan from Kenya,citing official corruption and mismanagement. 	   In contrast to other rallies which have drawn mostly malestudents, Saturday's rally also attracted laborers, businessmen andwomen. 	   They demonstrated at the Kamukunji Grounds, a grassy field inNairobi where Kenyans have often gathered to show theirdissatisfaction with the government. 	   ``We, the people of Kenya, have met here several times.  We havebeen beaten, we have shed blood, we have purchased the right tomeet here today with our blood,'' said John Munuve, an assemblyleader. 	   The protest was peaceful, and no police were deployed. 
	   (cm-kjd) APW19980314. 0392  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:36:00 Russian show of power in World Cup finale OSLO, Norway (AP) _ Russia's Alexey Prokurorov had no realchallengers as he won the 50-kilometer classical-style crosscountry World Cup race in Holmenkollen Saturday, clocking 2 hours,32 minutes, 25. 3 seconds. 	   Four Norwegians chased behind, but Odd Bjorn Hjelmeseth, BjornDahlie, Anders Aukland and Erling Jevne had to settle with secondto fifth places.  Prokurorov was 1:18. 9 ahead of Hjelmeseth. 	   Thomas Alsgaard of Norway clinched the World Cup Wednesday inSweden and he had nothing to go for in the 50K, finishing 20th.  Hehad 801 points in the final overall standings. 	   Dahlie, who became the winningest Winter Olympian in history atNagano last month, finished second with 678 points. 
	   Russia's Larissa Lazutina won the women's overall titlecomfortably when she defeated teammate Svetlana Nageykina by 2:23. 9in the 30K classical-style race.  Lazutina finished in 1:41. 41. 2. She topped the final standings with 773 points. 	   Anita Moen-Guidon of Norway was third, 2:28. 6 behind Lazutina,and Russia's Julia Chepalova fourth, 2:53. 5 behind. 
 Italy's Stefania Belmondo,who placed 11th, secured third overall with 558 points. 	   (kk-sn) APW19980314. 0393  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:36:00 Long-awaited Vatican statement on Holocaust ready VATICAN CITY (AP) _ More than 10 years after it was promised ina meeting with Jewish leaders, a major Vatican document on theHolocaust is ready. 	   The Vatican said Saturday the document would be made public onMonday. 	   Jewish groups have been keenly awaiting the document to see ifit will continue to heal Jewish-Catholic relations. 	   The last Vatican document of landmark proportions on Jewishrelations was a 1965 statement that came out of the Second VaticanCouncil under Paul VI.  ``Nostra Aetate'' (In Our Times) condemnedanti-Semitism and said the Jews cannot be collectively blamed forthe crucifixion of Jesus. 	   Pope John Paul II has dedicated much of his nearly 20-year-oldpapacy to improving relations of the church with Jews, whom herefers to as ``older brothers,'' after centuries of animosity. 	   Word of the latest document first came on Sept. 
	   The unprecedented meeting was hurriedly called as anxiety builtin the Vatican that Jews might boycott a ceremony during the thensoon-approaching papal visit to the United States.  Jews wereangered by the pope's audience earlier that year with then AustrianPresident Kurt Waldheim, who was been accused of helping deportJews to Nazi concentration camps, allegations he denied. 	   The Castel Gandolfo meeting was the first time Jewishrepresentatives had sat down for informal discussions with a pope. 	   Representatives at the 1987 meeting said the Vatican planned topublish a major document dealing with anti-Semitism and thegenocide of European Jews by the Nazis in World War II. 	   Since that meeting, John Paul has presided over severalmilestones that improved relations with Jews, including theestablishment of diplomatic relations with Israel in 1995. 	   Another ground-breaking step was the pope's visit to Rome's mainsynagogue in 1986. 	   Last fall, the pope told a Vatican seminar on anti-Jewishcurrents in Christian theology that centuries of anti-Jewishprejudice had figured in ``deadening'' Christian resistance toe theNazi persecution of Jews.  But, to the disappointment of some Jewishgroups, the pope steered clear of blaming the church itself. 	   (fd) APW19980314. 
	   It started out looking vaguely back to the 1940s with some``Evita'' hairdos, short flared skirts, a few sharply-tailoredshoulders in day wear.  But then, there was not much day wear, andclothes soon went into Belle Epoque evenings, via a modern ``startrek'' of fabulous pearled fabrics. 	   Minimalism, so fashionable on international runways these days,just does not grab Christian Lacroix. 	   ``After ten years, we must find a balance between glamour andefficiency,'' said Jean-Jacques Picart, Lacroix's partner on thebusiness side, though the house is under the LVMH (Louis VuittonMoet Hennesy) umbrella. 	   The glamour will undoubtedly not die out. 	   There were few clothes for day wear in this dressy collectionthat tended to the too-fussy, as Lacroix often does.  What to makeof a trouser suit with its tweedy masculine trousers and ruffledlace-organza Victorian blouse?	   Or the very tight sequin-spattered knit dress with its faux minkappliques and high feathered hat? And with the spangled tightsshown with all the short clothes, the show often teetered betweenthe boulevard hooker territory and the disco. 	   But there were many wonderful moments here, including anexcellent short carmine moire silk coat tied at the waist over asky-blue lace knit dress. 	   Big fur collars and long tweed coats, the gold-blacktiger-striped lame trapeze coat, some of the great frock coats, anda remarkable tie-dye effect silk in skirts and floppy 1930s pants,looked like winners. 
 Lacroix has evolved quite far away from his famous shawland sloped shoulder looks of opening days over 10 years ago. 	   The most modern-looking clothes were simply-cut soft gowns andtrouser outfits in black, gray and white pearled and diamantefabrics with a milky way effect. 	   And the party scene was complete in the Victorians or southernbelle evening styles capped by a fabulous red velvet gown withcrinolines and decollete a la Scarlet O'Hara, draped like curtainsand topped by a little red topper riding hat. 	   Earlier, Jean-Paul Gaultier went yet again to the Arctic Circlefor inspiration - as he did some years ago - but Friday night'soffering was brilliant. 	   The atmosphere was hot and smoky, a bar scene created in theWagram dance hall, notorious for the ``Last Tango in Paris. ''	   But the models, including Naomi Campbell, were dressed up likeNanook of the North as they cavorted, smoked, drank champagne andkibitzed with the audience at the bar. 	   There were many of those Siberian hats with flaps, fur, evensequins at the end, and the parkas were very good-looking, manyquite tailored, in black and white. 	   Some of the impressions were of hippies from outer space, but inspite of some crazy combinations like a layered look with longethnic skirt, fringed tunic and striped blazer, there was much toadmire. 	   The folklore Nordic knits were handsome, in sweaters, orknee-length pants, and might have been topped by something like asuper taffeta full coat. 
 A double-faced gray coat with itstrouser suit was impeccable. 	   For evening wear at the North Pole, girls could dress up inhandsome Nordic sweaters and full iridescent taffeta skirts, or topone of the full striped skirts with a terrific short beige trenchcoat. 	   ``I loved the show,'' said eminent English fashion historianColin McDowell.  ``It was indeed Nanook of the North - with a traceof existentialism. ''	   (sp-dgs) 	    APW19980314. 0398  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:40:00 Niemann breaks women's world 3,000-meter speedskating record HEERENVEEN, Netherlands (AP) _ Germany's Gunda Niemann smashedthe 3,000-meter speedskating world record Saturday in a time of 4minutes 5. 08 seconds, shattering the old record of fellow GermanClaudia Pechstein which stood at 4:07. 13. 	   Niemann began her race calmly and picked up pace in the middlelaps before accelerating to the new record in the closing two lapsat the indoor Thialf ice stadium. 
36 for secondplace in the race, a time that left her second to Niemann in theall-round championship with just Sunday's 5,000-meter race left. 	   (mc)	    APW19980314. 0399  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:41:00 Niemann breaks women's world 3,000-meter speedskating record HEERENVEEN, Netherlands (AP) _ Germany's Gunda Niemann smashedthe 3,000-meter speedskating world record Saturday in a time of 4minutes 5. 08 seconds, shattering the old record of fellow GermanClaudia Pechstein which stood at 4:07. 13. 	   Niemann began her race calmly and picked up pace in the middlelaps before accelerating to the new record in the closing two lapsat the indoor Thialf ice stadium. 	   Racing in the next pair, Pechstein skated 4:07. 36 for secondplace in the race, a time that left her second to Niemann in theall-round championship with just Sunday's 5,000-meter race left.  	    APW19980314. 
3 seconds. 	   Four Norwegians chased behind, but Odd Bjorn Hjelmeseth, BjornDahlie, Anders Aukland and Erling Jevne had to settle with secondto fifth places.  Prokurorov was 1:18. 9 ahead of Hjelmeseth. 	   Thomas Alsgaard of Norway clinched the World Cup Wednesday inSweden and he had nothing to go for in the 50K, finishing 20th.  Hehad 801 points in the final overall standings. 	   Dahlie, who became the winningest Winter Olympian in history atNagano last month, finished second with 678 points.  No other skierhas more World Cup race wins than Dahlie, a five-time overallchampion. 	   Russia's Larissa Lazutina won the women's overall titlecomfortably when she defeated teammate Svetlana Nageykina by 2:23. 
 Lazutina finished in 1:41. 41. 2. She topped the final standings with 773 points. 	   Anita Moen-Guidon of Norway was third, 2:28. 6 behind Lazutina,and Russia's Julia Chepalova fourth, 2:53. 5 behind. 	   Taking a fifth in the 30K, Bente Martinsen of Norway securedsecond place overall with 631 points.  Italy's Stefania Belmondo,who placed 11th, secured third overall with 558 points. 
0405  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:47:00 Indian golfer moves ahead of Americans CALCUTTA, India (AP) _ Firoz Ali of India shot a third-roundfive under par Saturday to move ahead of the Americans whodominated the first two rounds and take a 3-stroke lead in the dlrs300,000 Classic India Open. 	   Though it put him in the lead, Ali's round of 67 could not matchthe 64 by Canadian Rick Todd, which was just one stroke off thecourse record at the Royal Calcutta Golf Club. 	   Following Ali's total of 204 was Dean Wilson with 207, and TimStraub and Scott Rowe with 208. 	   ``Firoz played spectacularly today and if he plays another roundlike that tomorrow, it will be difficult to catch him,'' said Dean.  APW19980314. 0413  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:51:00 Prinosil beats Siemerink to make it to the final COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) _ Germany's David Prinosil booked aplace in the final of the dlrs 210,000 Copenhagen Open on Saturdayby beating No.  4 seed Jan Siemerink of the Netherlands 6-3, 7-6(7-5). 	   In the other semifinal, second seed Magnus Gustafsson of Swedenbeat Kenneth Carlsen of Denmark 6-4, 5-7, 6-2. 	   Prinosil played a consistent game to defeat the poorly servingSiemerink. 
	   The last time Prinosil was in an ATP Final was when he won inOstrava in 1996.  APW19980314. 0414  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:53:00 Fire tears through new St.  Petersburg building MOSCOW (AP) _ Fire-fighters battled 7 hours Saturday toextinguish a blaze that raced through a newly constructed officebuilding in St.  Petersburg, according to media reports. 	   No injuries were reported in the fire, but 40 percent of thebuilding was destroyed, the ITAR-Tass news agency said.  The top sixfloors of the 14-story building were completely gutted and thelower floors were inundated with water sprayed from the 52fire-trucks working at the scene. 	   No monetary estimate for the damage was given	   Construction of the glass-and-concrete building, which housesSt.  Petersburg's Institute of Urban Studies, a furniture showroomand other businesses, was completed just last summer. 
 Maj. Anatoly Ponidelko. 	   The city's steam-heating system in the neighborhood had been cutoff several days ago for non-payment of utility bills, Russianstate television said. 	   (ji) 	    APW19980314. 0418  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:54:00 One hurt in blast in northern Israel JERUSALEM (AP) _ A man was injured Saturday in an explosion atthe bus station in the small northern Israeli town of Afula, policesaid.  Israel radio said said the man's injuries were serious. 	   He was seen handling a cardboard box when there was a suddenexplosion, injuring him in the hands and eyes, the radio said. 	   The man was taken to a hospital and the police wereinvestigating.  No further details were immediately available. 
 The militant Muslim group Hamas claimedresponsibility. 	   When Saturday's blast occurred, however, the station was almostdeserted.  There is no public transport in most Israeli cities onthe Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown Friday and ends atsundown on Saturday.  APW19980314. 0419  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:55:00 Niemann breaks women's world 3,000-meter speedskating record HEERENVEEN, Netherlands (AP) _ Germany's Gunda Niemann smashedthe 3,000-meter speedskating world record Saturday in a time of 4minutes 5. 08 seconds, shattering the old record of fellow GermanClaudia Pechstein which stood at 4:07. 13. 	   Niemann began her race calmly and picked up pace in the middlelaps before accelerating to the new record in the closing two lapsat the indoor Thialf ice stadium. 	   Racing in the next pair, Pechstein skated 4:07. 
	   A third German, Anni Friesinger, was third in the 3,000 metersin a time of 4:11. 57. 	   ``This is such a great tournament.  Lots of people are skatingpersonal bests and that motivated me,'' Niemann said. 	   Earlier Saturday, reigning men's world all-round champion IdsPostma of the Netherlands virtually guaranteed he will retain histitle by narrowly beating Dutch rival Rintje Ritsma in a thrilling1,500-meter race. 	   Drawn together in the race's last pairing, Postma clocked1:48. 85 to edge Ritsma's time of 1:48. 86 and complete a sweep ofthe first three of races in the four-distance all-roundchampionship. 	   ``It was a great fight,'' Postma said. 
''	   Ritsma conceded that the title is now almost certainly out ofhis reach. 	   With just Sunday's 10,000-meter race to go, the difference inthe men's cumulative times ``is enough for Ids,'' Ritsma said. 	   ``He will have to do something very strange and I will have todo something very strange'' for Postma not to win the all-roundtitle, Ritsma added. 	   Italian veteran Roberto Sighel was third in the 1,500 race in1:51. 19. 	   In the day's first race, the women's 1,500 meters, defendingall-round champion Niemann also pushed Pechstein into second,powering to victory in 1:58. 69 seconds. 	   U. S. 
46. 	   (mc)	    APW19980314. 0423  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 10:58:00 In troubled Yugoslav province, Serbs, too, are victims PRISTINA, Yugoslavia (AP) _ He's a company director who wearsthe best suits, collects fine art and counts the influential amonghis friends.  She's a worn-out refugee who sleeps under a borrowedblanket. 	   Elsewhere, Boban Boskovic, chief executive of the Plastikafactory, would have nothing in common with Ilinka Durbaba, stuck ina refugee camp for nearly three years.  In Kosovo, they shoulder acommon burden. 	   They are Serbs in a part of Serbia controlled by a hostileAlbanian majority that outnumbers them 9 to 1.  And while theAlbanians groan under repressive Serbian rule, the average Serb inKosovo feels threatened by the specter of a secessionist war. 	   The United States and other world powers consider the KosovoAlbanians victims, and back their struggle for autonomy, if not forindependence. 
 Mostrecently, Serb police killed at least 80 of them in a brutaltwo-week crackdown on militant separatists. 	   As sympathy grows for the Albanians, hostility rises againstSerbs, who often are equated with their repressive government. 	   But in Kosovo, Serbs, too, are victims. 	   Most work at low-paying government jobs or state companies thatoften cannot meet payroll.  Albanians, victims of mass firings inthe early 1990s, now dominate the private sector, their prosperityreflected in large houses and modern stores. 	   Kosovo Serbs are a despised minority on home ground.  But theycannot leave _ to keep them there, the government has forbiddenproperty sales. 	   Milica Boskovic, the director's wife, flinches when an Albanianboy spits at her. 	   ``This isn't the worst of it,'' she says. 
 They walk their children to school, fearful of abuse fromAlbanian kids.  The school is split by a wall _ one side for Serbs,the other for Albanians. 	   ``Their kids swear at our kids,'' says Mrs.  Boskovic, mother of7- and 8-year old boys. 	   At the Plastika factory, Boban Boskovic says he does what he canfor harmony _ half his work force is ethnic Albanian. 	   Loyalties were forged after the plant burned down in 1983, oneof several fires thought set by Albanian separatists.  Boskoviccalled a workers' meeting ahead of rebuilding. 	   ``I told them, `Here, I am your Tito, your Milosevic, yourRugova,''' said Boskovic, referring respectively to the leader ofthe former communist Yugoslavia, who gave Kosovo automony; hissuccessor who took it away, and the ethnic Albanian leader nowseeking independence.  ``You've all got mouths to feed, whether theyare Serb or Albanian. 
	   Pictures in his lavish office show him with archbishops, Serbroyalty _ and Zeljko Raznatovic, a. k. a Arkan, the Serbultranationalist whose troops are accused of atrocities in Croatia,Bosnia, and, most recently, Kosovo. 	   ``Where would I go?'' he replies, when asked if he iscontemplating leaving. 	   ``We must talk to them,'' he says of the Albanians.  ``We shouldhave talked to them a long time ago. ''	   At the hairdresser's, Serb women discuss options.  Stay or go?	   They reflect on their good times in the 1950s and 1960s, andwhat they view as Tito's greatest mistake _ giving Kosovo autonomyin 1974.  That, a high Albanian birthrate and an influx fromneighboring Albania left the Serbs cornered by the 1980s. 
 ``They hadnothing. ''	   The reverse seems true now.  The two-chair salon is squeezedamong modern, well-equipped Albanian shops. 	   ``Compare my little house to a six-story Albanian one,'' Mrs. Savic rails, ignoring warnings from other women to hush because ofthe thin wall and the Albanian shop next door.  ``Sell to anAlbanian? In a minute, if they let us. ''	   ``In my street, . . . 
''	   Hairdresser Milanka Milentijevic says 80 percent of hercustomers were Albanians in the 1970s. 	   ``Now, I have one a month.  Business is down 95 percent,'' shesays.  ``Even the Serbs who could afford to come left a long timeago. ''	   About 200 of her relatives have left the area, but Mrs. Milentijevic wants to stay _ for now.  She describes Albanianacquaintances as ``friends in hiding. ''	   ``We talk about everything.  Families, politics,'' says Mrs. 
 ``Sometimes we even joke about the situation. ''	   Mrs.  Durbaba, the refugee, contemplates her options.  Sitting ona cot in a space blanketed off from the next family, she says shestarted running at 3, from the Germans during World War II.  In1995, she fled her town of Knin in Croatia, when Croats recapturedit from rebel Serbs, who had seized it in 1991. 	   Is it time to run again?	   ``I have nowhere to go,'' she says, sobbing. 	   She turns to a poster of Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslavpresident.  He stoked the war that forced her to flee Knin and hisdecision to abolish Kosovo's autonomy radicalized the Albanians. 	   ``I love him,'' says Mrs. 
 ``He's good for everybody wholoves peace. '' APW19980314. 0425  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:00:00 Welshman takes one-stroke lead in Kenya Open NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) _ Welshman Mark Litton hit a brilliant roundof six-under-par 65 Saturday to take a one-stroke lead in the thirdround of the Tusker Kenya Open at the 71-par Muthaiga Golf Club. 	   Litton dropped a shot in the 377-meter (413-yard) par-four firsthole, but recovered to sink a birdie two in the second hole beforeplaying level par on the par-four third in a round that featuredseven birdies. 	   Litton's playing partner, Kenyan Jacob Okello, was tied forsecond with Argentine Ricardo Gonzalez on 10-under-par 203 afterthe three rounds, a shot behind the leader. 	   ``It's a good test, and if you drive well things work out justfine,'' Litton said.  ``I've had a wonderful partnership with Okelloand I just hope I play the same in the final round. ''	   Okello, 26, said he was pleased by his putting in the thirdround.  ``I got a few tips from my fellow Kenyan professionals andmy putting has improved, although the fairways have been a bitdifficult,'' he said. 
 Four players finished the round on six-under-par 207. 	   Fifty-six of the 146 players who teed off Thursday made the cutFriday, which was two-over-par 144. 	   The sixth hole is the longest on the 6,250-meter (6,836-yard)Muthaiga course where the fourth and final round will be playedSunday. 	   The Kenya Open is a round of the European Challenge Tour.  Theleading 15 players in the tour rankings at the end of the seasonwill earn full European Tour membership for the 1999 season. 	   Past tournament winners include Seve Ballesteros, Jose MariaCanizares and Ian Woosnam. 	   (em-kjd) APW19980314. 0431  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:04:00 Army deployed to fight fires in rainforest GEORGETOWN, Guyana (AP) _ The Second Army Batallion will be sentto this South American country's Amazonian rainforest to help fightforest fires resulting from an El Nino-fueled drought, thegovernment announced Saturday. 	   Soldiers will join firefighters and Forestry Commission rangersin trying to contain the blazes, which have been burning for amonth in the southern and western parts of the country. 
	   ``The situation is not so good,'' said Forestry Minister SatydeoSawh.  ``The fires are raging and we may need help. ''	   Guyana, on the northeast shoulder of South America, has beensuffering a prolonged dry spell, blamed on El Nino-caused changesin the weather pattern, since July.  Now, in the height of the dryseason, the forests are susceptible to fire and significantrainfall is unlikely before June. 	   The lack of rainfall has already affected such varied industriesas rice farming and gold mining. 	   Some of the 35,000 residents of the bauxite mining town ofLinden, 70 miles (113 kilometers) south of Georgetown, say thesmoke is beginning to affect them.  Residents are normally botheredby the dust pollution from the mining.  	    APW19980314. 0434  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:07:00 Long-awaited Vatican statement on Holocaust ready VATICAN CITY (AP) _ More than 10 years after it was promised ina meeting with Jewish leaders, a major Vatican document on theHolocaust is ready. 
	   Jewish groups worldwide have been keenly awaiting the documentto see if it will continue to heal Jewish-Catholic relations andhave at times issued calls for its release to be speeded up. 	   The last Vatican document of landmark proportions on Jewishrelations was a 1965 statement that came out of the Second VaticanCouncil under Paul VI.  ``Nostra Aetate'' (In Our Times) condemnedanti-Semitism and said the Jews cannot be collectively blamed forthe crucifixion of Jesus. 	   Pope John Paul II has dedicated much of his nearly 20-year-oldpapacy to improving relations of the church with Jews, whom herefers to as ``older brothers,'' after centuries of animosity. 	   Word of the latest document first came on Sept.  1, 1987, duringa meeting between the pope and Jewish leaders in Castel Gandolfo,the pontiff's summer residence in the hills southeast of Rome. 	   The unprecedented meeting was hurriedly called as anxiety builtin the Vatican that Jews might boycott a ceremony during the thensoon-approaching papal visit to the United States.  Jews wereangered by the pope's audience earlier that year with then AustrianPresident Kurt Waldheim, who was been accused of helping deportJews to Nazi concentration camps, allegations he denied. 	   The Castel Gandolfo meeting was the first time Jewishrepresentatives had sat down for informal discussions with a pope. 
	   Since that meeting, John Paul has presided over severalmilestones that improved relations with Jews, including theestablishment of diplomatic relations with Israel in 1995.  Theagreement to go ahead and forge ties came in December 1993. 	   Another ground-breaking step was the pope's visit to Rome's mainsynagogue in 1986. 	   Last fall, the pope told a Vatican seminar on anti-Jewishcurrents in Christian theology that centuries of anti-Jewishprejudice had figured in ``deadening'' Christian resistance toe theNazi persecution of Jews.  But, to the disappointment of some Jewishgroups, the pope steered clear of blaming the church itself. 	   (fd) 	    APW19980314. 0435  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:07:00 Underground political party has big dreams for China BEIJING (AP) _ A small and secretive Chinese opposition partyhas ambitious goals: bringing free elections, political democracyand greater civil liberties than currently allowed by the rulingCommunist Party, a Beijing-based member of the underground groupsays. 	   The 29-year-old member of the China Democratic Justice Partystopped short of saying that they want to see the communistsoverthrown.  Instead, he said they wanted to be able to compete onan equal footing with them in elections and ``let the people decidewho rules. 
 We'll be able to grow into several million people,several tens of million,'' he said in an interview, the first by aChina-based member of the group. 	   ``We'll be like the Polish Solidarity union movement, anationwide civil power. ''	   The organization announced its formation last month in faxes toforeign reporters in Beijing.  It said it was headquartered withexiled Chinese dissidents in the United States and had members inChina.  Until now, however, there had been no way of confirming thegroup's existence with members inside China. 	   The group is the first known opposition party organized bydissidents in China and overseas.  But, forced to operate secretlyin small cells, it does not for the moment appear to present anyobvious threat to the communists' nearly 50-year rule. 	   China's constitution allows for freedom of association and otherliberties.  But working to change the communist-run system isillegal, and the party relentlessly punishes dissent. 
	   He identified himself as Chen Jin, a pseudonym he said he hasused when signing petitions to the government calling fordemocratic change. 	   He was generally circumspect about his own history.  He said hegrew up in northeast China, studied in Beijing, where he works as abusiness manager, and took part in democracy protests in 1989 thatstarted on Beijing's Tiananmen Square and spread to other cities. 	   He said there were 17 members in his party cell, one of three inBeijing.  The other members range in age and include universitystudents, government bureaucrats, professors, two laborers and alawyer, he said. 	   He estimated the two other cells in Beijing have a similarnumber of members.  Another cell operates in Changchun and anotheris planned in Harbin, he said. 	   Both cities are in China's northeast, where dissatisfaction overlayoffs at run-down state firms is mounting. 	   According to New York-based dissident Fu Shenqi, a spokesman forthe group, the party has at least 100 members in five to 10branches in provinces and cities across China. 
	   ``We all have a common conviction _ bringing politicaldiversification and political democracy to China,'' he said. 	   Asked how the party would recruit members, he described asomewhat vague process whereby party members would start bychatting to ordinary Chinese _ he mentioned taxi drivers, factoryworkers, entrepreneurs and soldiers _ about issues of publicconcern. 	   These could include official corruption within the party andgovernment, layoffs, or other sources of dissatisfaction that havearisen in China's two-decade shift from a planned to a marketeconomy. 	   Through such contacts they would look for suitable people tojoin the party, he said. 	   ``If after one meeting, two meetings, many meetings, we discoverthat they think like us and are willing to operate in anorganization, then they will become a target for us,'' he said. 	   ``When we are strong, the Communist Party will have lost itsruling base, the army won't carry out its orders,'' he added.  ``Atthat time, we'll use negotiations to resolve the problems insociety. '' 	    APW19980314. 0442  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:15:00 Questions linger two decades after assassination in Italy ROME (AP) _ Twenty years after terrorists kidnapped formerPremier Aldo Moro and left his bullet-riddled body in the back of aparked car, one question still haunts Italy: Could he have beensaved?	   The anniversary of the kidnapping is being marked by televisionprograms, new books, a play and published interviews with convictedmembers of the Red Brigades who took part in the crime. 
	   Moro was abducted in Rome on March 16, 1978, in an ambush thatkilled five of his bodyguards.  His body turned up 55 days later ina car parked around the corner from the headquarters of both theChristian Democrat and Communist parties. 	   Moro had just negotiated an agreement for the Communists andChristian Democrats, the leading political forces in Italy at thattime, to collaborate. 	   It was a historic agreement, a break with the long-standingpolicy backed by the United States to keep Western Europe's largestcommunist party away from power. 	   Those political parties no longer exist, done in by scandals andan end to the Cold War that also took the bite out of theideological divisions that so marked Italian society during theyears of bullets and bombs. 	   The kidnapping and slaying stiffened Italy's resolve to fightdomestic terrorism, marking the beginning of the end to urbanguerrilla gangs in the country. 	   Then-premier Giulio Andreotti, like Moro a Christian Democratand now on trial on charges of favoring the mafia, insisted earlierthis month that the government did everything it could. 	   ``To free Moro, we activated everybody, including the armedforces,'' Andreotti said in a roundtable organized by the Corrieredella Sera newspaper. 	   The government stuck to hard-line policy, refusing anycompromise, such as freeing terrorist prisoners despite Moro'sincreasingly desperate pleas. 
	   ``Instead, no one knew the right thing to do and we made amistake.  We all made a mistake,'' he was quoted as saying by theweekly Vita. 	   But Anna Braghetti, another former Red Brigade member, gave adifferent version, saying the decision to kill Moro came after apoll among 200 members of the gang. 	   The group could not justify sparing Moro's life, given that thegovernment was not compromising and so many of his bodyguards werekilled in an attempt to kidnap him, Braghetti was quoted as sayingby Corriere della Sera. 	   Attempts to close the dark chapter of the ``years of lead'' _ asthe terrorist period is called _ by an amnesty for those convictedof terrorist crimes have been stalled in parliament.  Opposition isstrong to clemency for ``blood crimes'' like the Moro killing.  	    APW19980314. 0443  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:18:00 One hurt in blast in northern Israel JERUSALEM (AP) _ A man was injured Saturday in an explosion atthe bus station in the small northern Israeli town of Afula, policesaid.  Israel radio said the man's injuries were serious. 
	   The man was taken to a hospital and the police wereinvestigating.  No further details were immediately available. 	   The Afula bus station was the scene of a major terror attack inApril 1994, when a car rigged with explosives blew up, killing ninepeople and injuring 45.  The militant Muslim group Hamas claimedresponsibility. 	   When Saturday's blast occurred, however, the station was almostdeserted.  There is no public transport in most Israeli cities onthe Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown Friday and ends atsundown on Saturday.  	    APW19980314. 0452  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:29:00 Georgia and Turkey announced start of oil project TBILISI, Georgia (AP) _ Georgia and Turkey signed an accord onSaturday launching a cooperative project to transport oil fromAzerbaijan's Caspian oil fields across Georgia to Turkey. 	   Five oil-producing countries of the Caspian Sea region hadapproved the route earlier this month. 
	   Turkey has long campaigned for a pipeline running fromAzerbaijan's capital Baku through Georgia to the TurkishMediterranean port of Ceyhan. 	   Turkey's strongest competitor is Russia, which has been vyingfor pipelines to traverse its territory as well.  The first oil fromAzerbaijan started flowing through a Russian pipeline last fall. 	   On Friday, Georgia and Turkey signed inter-governmental accordson border cooperation in the Black Sea and exchange programs insport, education, science and culture, the ITAR-Tass news agencyreported. 	   (pvs/ji) APW19980314. 0454  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:30:00 Town dedicates memorial garden to school massacre victims DUNBLANE, Scotland (AP) _ Townspeople dedicated a gardenSaturday in memory of 16 children and a teacher killed by asuicidal gunman two years ago. 	   ``This garden is a beautiful place in which we can all rememberthe loved ones we lost,'' said Mick North, whose daughter Sophiewas among the slain children. 	   ``The cheerfulness and brightness of a Primary One classroom isevoked by each one of the pebbles in the pools, you can almost hearthe chatter of children in the sound of the fountain,'' he said atthe dedication ceremony. 	   A local man, 43-year-old Thomas Hamilton, barged into theprimary school on March 13, 1996 and opened fire on a class in thegym. 
	   Britain has since banned handgun ownership. 	   The memorial garden, designed by the victims' families, featuresa bronze plaque with the names of the dead, a cherry tree and avariety of flowers. 	   Another memorial to the Dunblane victims, a sculpture of stoneand wood, is to be unveiled April 5 in the National Forest innorthern England. 	   (rb) APW19980314. 0458  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:32:00 Lebanon marks 20 years of Israeli occupation with attacks, rallies BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) _ Lebanese guerrillas attacked Israeliforces in southern Lebanon on Saturday while civilians flocked torallies around the country to mark 20 years of Israeli occupation. 	   Lebanon's president, prime minister and national assemblyspeaker held talks with Syrian leaders in Damascus on Israel'sproposal to withdraw its 1,500 troops from southern Lebanon. 	   The talks were seen as aimed at coordinating the Lebanese andSyrian views ahead of a visit by U. N.  Secretary General Kofi Annan. 
	   Guerrillas of the Iranian-backed Hezbollah group mounted attackson positions of Israeli troops and their allied Lebanese militiamenin the occupied zone, Lebanese officials said.  There was no word oncasualties. 	   Hezbollah and the Hezbollah-backed Lebanese Resistance Brigadessaid in statements issued here that their guerrillas had attackedpositions at Sojod, Hardon, Baarchit, Hadatha and Soweida. 	   Thousands turned out for rallies in Beirut, and the cities ofSidon and Tyre and the town of Nabatiyeh in the south. 	   In Sidon, the capital of southern Lebanon, local politicianssuch as the prime minister's sister, legislator Bahia Hariri,denounced Israel's occupation and called for the implementation ofU. N.  Security Council Resolution 425.  Passed in 1978, theresolution calls on Israel to withdraw its forces from Lebanon. 	   Speakers vowed that guerrillas would continue their``resistance'' against Israeli forces until the occupation ended. 
''	   A group calling itself the March 14 Solidarity Day with OccupiedSouthern Lebanon published a full-page advertisement in The DailyStar which described the world's failure to make Israel comply withresolution 425 as a ``record of disgrace. ''	   It was on March 14, 1978, that some 25,000 Israeli troopsinvaded south Lebanon in a campaign against Palestinian guerrillas,who had attacked a town in northern Israel.  Five days later, theSecurity Council adopted Resolution 425. 	   Huge yellow banners hung across intersections in Beirut wheremotorists strung yellow ribbons from their aerials.  In Lebanon,yellow is the symbol of support for resolution 425. 	   In the eastern city of Baalbek, government buildings sportedyellow banners and Hezbollah supporters roamed the streetssoliciting funds for ``the resistance. '' Outside the city,Hezbollah activists burned Israel's flag on the main road. 	   Thousands of Lebanese civilians and militants and nearly 900Israeli soldiers have been killed since 1978.  Since 1985 Israel hasoccupied a strip of land along the border amounting to 10 percentof Lebanese territory. 
 But increasing casualties _ a record 39 Israeli troopswere killed in action in Lebanon last year _ have generatedgrassroots pressure among Israelis for the government to make aunilateral withdrawal.  APW19980314. 0460  NEWS STORY  03/14/1998 11:33:00 Man seriously hurt in blast in northern Israel JERUSALEM (AP) _ A man was seriously injured Saturday in anexplosion outside the bus station in the small northern Israelitown of Afula, an ambulance official said. 	   The blast blew off both the man's hands, Israeli army radioquoted Eli Bin, deputy head of the Afula ambulance station, assaying.  The man appeared to be in his early 50s, the radio said. 	   Police said the explosion took place in a public park justoutside the bus station. 	   Before the man was taken into surgery, he said he had spotted acardboard box that he thought looked suspicious and was examiningit when it exploded, army radio said. 	   Israeli police frequently tell people to be on the alert forsuspicious objects that might be bombs planted by Palestinianmilitant groups.  However, police always urge the public not totouch any such objects, but to report them to the nearest policestation. 
 The militant Muslim group Hamas claimedresponsibility. 	   When Saturday's blast occurred, however, the bus station wasnearly deserted.  There is no public transport in most Israelicities on the Jewish Sabbath, which begins at sundown Friday andends at sundown on Saturday. . 
 APW19980424. 0864  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:38:00 Security Council members express need for political will to help UNITED NATIONS (AP) _ Recalling U. N.  failures in Africa,Security Council members said Friday the international communitymust demonstrate the political will to help Africa overcome itseconomic and social problems. 	   The calls came during an all-day debate on Africa to reviewSecretary-General Kofi Annan's report last week, in which heoutlined goals for the United Nations in assisting the world's mostunder-developed continent. 	   In that report, Annan, the first sub-Saharan African to head theUnited Nations, said African leaders must demonstrate the politicalwill to combat corruption, protect human rights and pursue soundeconomic policies. 	   At the same time, Annan said, the international community mustrespond by investing in Africa and by intervening to end armedconflicts and restore stability. 	   Echoing Annan's comments, Portugal's U. N.  ambassador, AntonioMonteiro, said ``political will is needed from the internationalcommunity'' to help Africa overcome its political problems. 
``Concrete measures should be considered to ensure that the UnitedNations and the Security Council in particular provide a timelyresponse to impending crises. ''	   But the council's willingness to intervene in African crises wasweakened by the disastrous failure of the U. N.  peacekeepingoperation in Somalia in 1993. 	   The deaths of 18 American soldiers in a gunbattle in Mogadishuin 1993 led the United States to withdraw from the operation andimpose stringent conditions on future U. N.  peacekeeping missions. 	   U. N. 
 They point to the U. S.  stand as one of the mainreasons for the laggard U. N.  response to the 1994 massacre of up toa half million Rwandan Tutsis and moderate Hutus by Hutuextremists. 	   The Security Council was also unable to intervene decisively inlast year's rebellion in the Congo, formerly Zaire, and in theRepublic of Congo, where a former dictator overthrew an electedpresident. 	   ``The experience of intervention in Somalia was a bitter one butthat of non-intervention in Rwanda was perhaps worse,'' BritishAmbassador John Weston told the council. 	   He cited the U. N. 
''	   Weston said proposals for shifting peacekeeping to regionalorganizations _ as proposed by the Clinton Administration _``cannot substitute for the U. N. ''	   ``What we need is an active partnership with Africa,'' he said. 	   France's U. N.  ambassador, Alain Dejammet, said France was``prepared to respond and work'' with its U. N.  partners on a moreeffective role in Africa, despite the French drawdown of militaryforces on the continent. 	   The Security Council asked Annan to prepare the report followinga meeting on Africa held in September during the annual GeneralAssembly debate. 
	   Annan said he would deliver that message during a visit to eightAfrican countries _ Ethiopia, Djibouti, Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda,Burundi, Uganda and Eritrea _ starting Wednesday.  APW19980424. 0865  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:39:00 MALAYSIA	   COPYRIGHT 1998 BY WORLDSOURCES, INC. , A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH,INC.  AND WORLD TIMES, INC.  NO PORTION OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINEDHEREIN MAY BE USED	   IN ANY MEDIA WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION TO WORLDSOURCES, INC.  SHAH ALAM, Thurs.  - The Selangor Waterworks Department and thepolice have stepped up investigations into the alleged theft ofwater by a company, Sun Metal Works Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary ofWembley Industries Holdings Bhd, at Jalan Gambus off Jalan BukitKemuning in Klang. 	   The company involved in metal works and production of boilers isexpected to be charged soon under section 38 of the Water SupplyAct 1997 which carries a maximum fine of RM50,000 or two years'jail or both. 
	   Shah Alam district crime chief, Deputy Superintendent G. Selvakumar said police have stepped up their investigations undersection 379 of the Penal Code. 	   The company, which has about 400 permanent and contractemployees, has been in operation at the site for about two years. 	   Selangor Menteri Besar Datuk Abu Hassan Omar today said apartfrom court action, the State Waterworks Department had beendirected to recover payment, estimated to be about half-a millionringgit, from the company. 	   ``It is a serious offence to steal water and the company hasbeen doing this from the time it has been in operation at the sitewith an average of 450,000 litres of water a day,'' he toldreporters after opening the 11th Selangor Malay Chamber of Commerceand Industry annual general meeting at Radisson Hotel. 	   The courts, he added, should also impose deterrent sentences onthose charged with theft of water. 	   Abu Hassan said the department has also been ordered to actimmediately on all information received from the public on theft ofwater by squatters, individuals and the commercial sector as itcould cost the Government millions of ringgit. 	   Asked why the department did not act on complaints lodged by thepublic earlier on theft of water, Abu Hassan said he would checkwith the authorities but assured the public that all complaintswould be acted upon effective from today. 	   ``The public can also lodge complaints with the State TechnicalCommittee on Water headed by State Secretary Datuk Hashim Meon orto my office,'' he added. 
	   ``With the present water crisis, every drop of water counts,''he said adding that the water rationing exercise was beingimplemented as planned in all affected areas in Zone A and B. 	   Meanwhile employees at Sun Metal Works Sdn Bhd when interviewedsaid that the factory had been deprived of water supply for thepast two days. 	   Attempts to contact the factory officials proved futile. 	    APW19980424. 0868  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:40:00 MALAYSIA	   COPYRIGHT 1998 BY WORLDSOURCES, INC. , A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH,INC.  AND WORLD TIMES, INC.  NO PORTION OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINEDHEREIN MAY BE USED	   IN ANY MEDIA WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION TO WORLDSOURCES, INC. 	   PEOPLE from across the world travel to Cherating on the eastcoast of Peninsular Malaysia mainly because Club Med has made itfamous. 
	   Within a short radius of Pahang's top beach spot, you can findmany lovely things to do or see. 	   My second visit to Cherating recently unveiled more places thatI hadn't been to before.  It was a weekend well spent; delighting inthe greenery, soaking up the sun and enjoying the leisurely life bythe seaside. 	   My two friends from Singapore and I stayed at The Legend Resort,Cherating, 47km north of Kuantan or 45 minutes from Kuantanairport.  If you prefer to drive, it's about five hours from KualaLumpur. 	   At Cherating, there is a wide range of accommodation to choosefrom. 	   Depending on your budget, there are top-notch resorts like TheLegend, Impiana, Residence Inn, Holiday Villa Cherating and the newSwiss Garden, or the affordable chalets rented out by villagefolks.  Foreigners can also arrange for homestay with locals, for afee, of course. 	   One of the first places we visited was a fishing village inKuala Kemaman, on the Terengganu side of the border. 
	   Undeterred, we drove around Cukai, a tiny town in Terengganuthat's bursting with banks (our guide Santhi Jayadhan counted atleast a dozen) that service the oil and gas industries.  Santhi, TheLegend's senior sales manager, has been living in the area forseveral years and knows the place like the back of her hand. 	   Next, we arranged to have a tour of the famous Club Med andnoted with delight that there is a soon-to-be-opened turtlesanctuary and information centre beside the resort.  This means cityfolks like me don't have to travel to Rantau Abang to see howturtles are hatched. 	   The following day, we spent an enjoyable morning on a small,uninhabited island and the afternoon at Cherating village, arrangedby the hotel. 	   However, our guide Wan Yeh Mahmood (who is the resort's dutymanager) seemed so enthusiastic that we couldn't possibly chickenout.  As it turned out, the sea was calm and beautiful, and PulauUlar (there are no snakes there) was great as a picnic spot. 	   With only a stamp-sized patch of beach, the rocky Pulau Ular isbetter suited for fishing and snorkelling.  The water was so clearthat tiny fish could be seen swimming near some of the rocks. 
 We were pleased when Wan gave ushis catch of a few medium- and small-sized fish.  He later arrangedfor one of the resort's chefs to cook the fish in three styles:steamed, deep-fried, and prepared with delicious ayam percik sauce. 	   According to The Legend's general manager, Kevin Loh, theresort's chefs are always willing to help guests, particularlylong-staying ones, to cook their catch after a fishing trip orafter a visit to the fishing village. 	   A trip to the older part of Cherating village - with itskampung-style chalets, pubs, restaurants and handicraft workshopsand where you can see Mak De's chalet-cum-restaurant - is not to bemissed. 	   ``Mak Long De,'' said Santhi, ``is an enterprising housewife whoset up the first chalet for rent to tourists in the early '60s,about 20 years before Club Med came into the scene. ''	   We didn't get to see Mak Long De but we chatted with herrelative, Pak De, a sprightly septuagenarian who has trained hismonkey called ``Salleh''	   to pluck coconuts to amuse tourists and for sale.  Thethree-year-old berok can pick over 200 coconuts in a day. 	   Pak De said it takes him between one and two months to train amonkey. 	   He charges RM10 for the monkey to ``perform'' and RM1 for acoconut. 
	   One of the latest tourist attractions in the area is theCherating Cultural Complex, a one-stop cultural centre where youcan watch craftsmen and women painting batik, weaving mengkuang andtenun, or see a demonstration of traditional games liketop-spinning, kite-flying, congkak and sepak raga.  Or dine at therestaurant in the complex while enjoying a wayang kulit play or atraditional dance. 	   Run by the Kuantan Municipal Council, the RM1 million complex isspread over 1. 6ha near the Cherating River. 	   It had its soft opening last June and is still being expanded. 	   Our three-day getaway in Cherating finished off with a morningcruise on the Cherating River. 	   I've never ceased to be amazed at the diversity and richness ofMalaysia's flora and fauna.  We saw within just a 30-minute ride upand down a portion of Cherating River a few kingfishers, an iguana,pheasants, monkeys, an eagle and spiders, and enjoyed the naturalmusic created by cicadas and many birds. 	   Thank goodness we don't have to travel half-way across the worldto savour these simple pleasures of life. 
0870  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:40:00 Three killed, 27 injured in mosque bomb explosion SAN`A, Yemen (AP) _ A bomb exploded in a mosque in central San`aFriday, killing three people and wounding 27 others, securityofficials said. 	   The explosion occurred inside the al-Khair Mosque as scores ofMuslims were performing Friday prayers, said the officials,speaking on condition of anonymity. 	   The injured included two U. S.  citizens, a Dutch, a Canadian andseveral Africans _ all Muslims who were praying in the mosque atthe time of the explosion. 	   At least ten of the injured were in critical condition, theofficials said. 	   No one took responsibility for the explosion. 	   Yemen, a poor nation of around 17 million on the Arabianpeninsula, is still reeling from a 1994 civil war that nearly toreapart the union reached in 1990 between the conservative north andthe socialist south.  The government says subsequent acts ofviolence were directed from abroad, but it has not named anycountry. 
0872  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:41:00 Judge says goverment was too sensitive to teacher's math exercise BLANTYRE, Malawi (AP) _ A judge said the government was beingtoo sensitive when it suspended a math teacher for comparing thesize of a coin image of President Bakili Muluzi with that of hispredecessor in a class exercise. 	   Blantyre High Court Judge Eric Kumitsonyo said Thursday that hecould find ``nothing derogatory'' in teacher Felix Mchamithe'sremark that Muluzi's image on a coin was larger than that of thelate dictator Kamuzu Banda. 	   ``Is it not true that the face of Muluzi fills the coin? And ifit is full, so what?'' Kumitsonyo said. 	   Kumitsonyo adjourned the hearing and did not indicate when hewill make a ruling. 	   Mchamithe, who asked his pupils to measure the images during alesson on circumference and circles, sued education authorities forwrongful dismissal.  He said he was suspended for allegedlyinsulting Muluzi and undermining his presidential authority. 	   The teacher told the court that he made it clear in theclassroom that Banda, who died last year at age 99, was a small mandwarfed by Muluzi, who is heavily built. 	   Muluzi ousted Banda in the first democratic elections in 1994,ending Banda's brutal 30-year dictatorship. 	   The new ruling party said it would not copy Banda's habit ofputting the president's image on the currency, but Muluzi's faceappeared there after two years. 
	   The remarks were reportedly made in a speech by an oppositionpolitician who dismissed government accusations that the oppositionwas sponsoring crime to undermine Muluzi.  	    APW19980424. 0875  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:43:00 Red Cross hostages freed in Somalia, return to families NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) _ After 10 days of seemingly endlessnegotiations, fears and dashed hopes, the leader of hostagesreleased in Somalia Friday said he burst into tears when gunmen sethim and his nine colleagues free. 	   ``We've gone through ups and downs,'' Swiss Thomas Gurtner said. ``We are a group of 10 people, different nationalities, differentcultural backgrounds, but we stuck it out together in a quiteamazing way.  We had some difficult moments, but in the end wesurvived it. ''	   Relieved relatives cheered and hugged Gurtner and nine otherswhen they stepped off the Red Cross aircraft from Mogadishu. 	   Other captives included Norwegian Ola Skuterud; naturalizedAmerican Somali Ibrahim Ahmad; Belgian Toon Vandenhove; GermanChristoph Langenkamp; Swiss Patrick Berner and Markus Fasel; andFrench nurse Nadine Piantowsky.  Two pilots, South African Robi Byrdand Kenyan Steve Riungu also were released. 
	   From then on, Somali elders and leaders, apparently embarrassedby the abductions and worried about their impact on the fragilepeace process, were in daily contact with the captors. 	   At one point, the kidnappers demanded up to one million dollars. At the end, no ransom was paid and the hostages were set freeunconditionally, according to the Red Cross and Somali leader AliMahdi Mohamed. 	   Bill Grant, a Somali advisor and a former U. S.  congressman fromFlorida, said three families from the Abgal subclan staged thekidnapping because they felt they were excluded from thedistribution of international aid. 	   Aid workers and foreigners have been kidnapped in Somalia bymilitiamen eager to make easy money since the country disintegratedinto a fiefdom of clans following the ouster of late dictatorMohamed Siad Barre in 1991.  In the past, aid agencies have refusedto pay ransoms, for fear of causing more	   Inside a walled north Mogadishu compound, the hostages wereunaware of the course negotiations were taking, but kept theirfaith throughout, Gurtner said. 	   ``Hope was always there,'' he said. 
 We were confined to a single room, 20 square meters (200square feet) for 10 of us.  But we always had access to water, foodand sanitary facilities.  Apart from a very few tense moments,generally speaking, we've been treated with respect. ''	   He blamed an international TV crew, which he did not name, forcreating unnecessary tensions. 	   ``They forced their entrance into the compound and actually usedsome of the militiamen, almost inciting them to create the mostdramatic affect,'' he said.  ``There, I thought I was not going tosurvive.  The press has very seriously affected the dignity of allus. ''	   The news of the release came after a night of anxiety andlast-minute bickering among the captors, he said. 	   ``The moment we came out of the room, when we saw colleaguesfrom the Somali Red Crescent who came to pick us up, and once I wasin the car and the car started moving, I burst out crying,''Gurtner said. 
''	   The freed hostages appeared in good shape and there were noindications that they had been physically harmed. 	   In Mogadishu, all three Somali faction leaders as well as clanelders came to congratulate the group on the release. 	   Ali Mahdi Mohamed, a Somali leader from north Mogadishu,apologized for their ordeal on behalf of Somalis. 	   (pvs/hh-kjd) APW19980424. 0879  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:46:00 Russia, Switzerland sign agreement on fighting organized crime MOSCOW (AP) _ Russia and Switzerland signed an agreement Fridaypledging to combine efforts to prevent Russian organized crime fromlaundering profits in Swiss banks. 	   The memorandum, signed in Moscow by Swiss Federal ProsecutorCarla del Ponte and Russian Prosecutor General Yuri Skuratov, callsfor sharing information about organized crime suspects and aboutbanks involved in laundering or accepting deposits of illegalprofits. 	   There have been frequent reports that Russian organized crimeuses Swiss banks to launder criminal profits running to hundreds ofmillions of dollars.  The activity apparently thrives in the LakeGeneva area, where the Russians buy up property and runprostitution rackets. 	   Last year, del Ponte and Skuratov agreed to step up efforts infighting organized crime, but the memorandum signed Friday was thefirst official agreement between the two nations' law-enforcementagencies, Skuratov said. 
	   Nobody knows exactly how much Russian crime money is being keptin Switzerland, and figuring that out is one of the goals of thenew agreement, del Ponte and Skuratov said at a joint newsconference. 	   ``If I knew that, I would be a very happy lawyer,'' del Pontetold reporters. 	   ``Switzerland is above all interested in getting Russia'sinformation on people suspected in laundering money inSwitzerland,'' del Ponte said. 	   The sides also agreed to form a joint task force to investigateorganized crime activities, share information and analyze the crimesituation in the two countries, Skuratov said. 	   Del Ponte also said that Swiss police has completed theinvestigation of the case against one of top reputed Russian mafiabosses, Sergei Mikhailov, who was arrested in Geneva in October,1996, after warrants were issued in the United States, Israel andBelgium. 	   Mikhailov is charged with involvement in organized crime andmoney laundering.  The case will soon be brought to trial, del Pontesaid. 	   (ad/jai) APW19980424. 0883  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:49:00 background MOSCOW (AP) _ Sergei Kiriyenko, Russia's new prime minister,represents a new generation of young leaders who are quicklyentering the top ranks of politics, business and other fields. 
 He graduated from the GorkyInstitute of Water Transport Engineering and took a two-year courseat the Moscow Academy of Economics, majoring in finance andbanking. 	   After serving in the military, Kiriyenko became a foreman at theKrasnoye Sormovo shipyard in the Soviet city of Gorky, now known asNizhny Novgorod. 	   He also served as the first secretary of Gorky's regionalcommittee of the Young Communist League, the Komsomol and was adeputy in the local legislature. 	   Kiriyenko was just 28 and beginning his career as a privatebusinessman when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.  The transitionto a market economy provided new opportunities to young Russians,and Kiriyenko made the most of them. 	   He became a founder of Nizhny Novgorod's commercial bank,Garantia, in 1994, and served as the bank's chairman of the board. 	   Two years later, Kiriyenko became president of the NORSI oilcompany and held that job until he entered government as the firstdeputy minister for fuel and energy in May, 1997. 	   In November, 1997, he was appointed minister for fuel andenergy, a post he held until Yeltsin fired his Cabinet and namedKiriyenko acting prime minister on March 23. 	   Kiriyenko is married as has a son and a daughter. 
0887  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:52:00 MALAYSIA	   COPYRIGHT 1998 BY WORLDSOURCES, INC. , A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH,INC.  AND WORLD TIMES, INC.  NO PORTION OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINEDHEREIN MAY BE USED	   IN ANY MEDIA WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION TO WORLDSOURCES, INC. 	   THE Companies Act 1965 needs to be amended to check against theunhealthy activities of non-governmental organisations operatingunder the disguise of companies. 	   Deputy Minister of Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs Datuk S. 	   Subramaniam told the Dewan Rakyat that some of these NGOs werefound to be carrying out activities not in the interest of thepublic or national security. 	   Tabling the Companies (Amendment) (No. 2) Bill 1997 for a secondreading, he said a new section had been proposed to empower theRegistrar of Companies to refuse registration of the memorandum ofa proposed company if he was satisfied that it was likely to beused for unlawful purposes, or any purpose prejudicial to orincompatible with peace, welfare, security, public order, goodorder or morality, or prejudicial to national security or publicinterest. 
	   Subramaniam said the amendments were also aimed at ensuringcompanies would be more responsible in matters pertaining to theiraccounts. 	   As the accounts have to be made out in accordance with approvedaccounting standards with certain exceptions, they would be able toreflect the real performance of the companies. 	   During the debate, Datuk Abu Zahar Ujang (BN-Kuala Pilah) feltsuitable measures must be introduced to help companies facingproblems due to economic uncertainties. 	   He proposed that creditors and management of companies find anamicable solution to overcome their financial difficulties. 	   He said the ROC needed to improve its services andadministration, and one way this could be achieved was through itscorporatisation. 	   Lim Kit Siang (DAP-Tanjung) focused his debate on one of hisfavourite topics - questioning the Government on its move to bailout companies now in difficulties due to economic problems. 	   Reiterating his stand that the various corporate exercisesinvolving companies like Malaysia Airlines, Renong, KonsortiumPerkapalan, United Engineers Malaysia and others were actuallyattempts to rescue companies which had connections with theGovernment, Lim proposed that a commission be established to handlethe task. 	   ``If bailing-out is to become a government policy, set up thiscommission where everyone can submit their applications for them tobe vetted fairly, regardless of whether they are big or smallcompanies, with or without connections. ''	   Lim also questioned Ekran Bhd's move in using proceeds from arights issue although it differed from the original intendedpurpose, saying the case would be a test to the performance of theregulatory authorities. 
	   Husni Hanadzlah (BN-Tambun) hoped the proposed amendments wouldenhance the responsibility of the board of directors towardsshareholders and ensure non-abuse of power. 	   On audit committees, the MP said a study should be conducted toensure all public companies adhered to the regulation to hold auditcommittee meetings four times a year.  Husni said the amendmentwould also ensure the authenticity of documents filed or lodged bythe Registrar. 	   He praised the move to enable documents required under the Actto be electronically filed or lodged with the Registrar but saidthe information provided must not be outdated. 	   In lauding the proposed amendments, Michael Lisa Kaya (BN-BukitMas) said the proposed inclusion of Section 11(a) was a good movein keeping abreast of national development and the Government'saspirations in information technology. 	   The proposed amendment would see the insertion of this sectionfor electronic filing of documents.  The Registrar may provide aservice for the electronic filing or lodging of documents. 	   The MP said NGOs would be prevented from misleading the publicand causing disharmony with the introduction of the amendment. 	   Citing Sahabat Alam Malaysia as an example, the MP questionedits motives in playing a role in the setting up of human blockadesin Sarawak in 1991. 
	   For more than two weeks, he added, the people suffered byparticipating in the blockades instead of cultivating their land. 	   Mentakab MP Fu Ah Kiow also supported the proposed amendment tointroduce electronic filing and said this would help instreamlining the efficiency of the ROC's documentation process. 	   M.  Kulasegaran (DAP-Teluk Intan) raised the issue of golf clubswhich offered transferable memberships, citing the Kelab Golf DarulRidzuan in Perak as an example.  He said the club, formerly known asthe Meru Valley Golf Club, had also offered lots priced at betweenRM120,000 and RM150,000 each. 	   Local members were charged monthly fees while it was waived forinternational members. 	   He urged the ROC to conduct stringent inspections over suchclubs nationwide. 	   Subramaniam will wind-up the debate on Wednesday. 	    APW19980424. 
, A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH,INC.  AND WORLD TIMES, INC.  NO PORTION OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINEDHEREIN MAY BE USED	   IN ANY MEDIA WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION TO WORLDSOURCES, INC.  SIXTY-FIVE of the 69 Commonwealth member countries haveconfirmed their participation in the 16th Commonwealth Games inSeptember, Deputy Youth and Sports Minister Datuk Loke Yuen Yowtold the House. 	   He said this in response to Hashim Ismail (BN-Ledang), who askedwhether all the Commonwealth countries would be participating inthe Games and whether the Government, in its capacity as host ofthe second largest international games event, was satisfied withall aspects of the preparations carried out so far. 	   On the athletes' training programme, he said it had entered thefourth phase since early this year. 	   Under this phase, 272 athletes would undergo full-time trainingschedules. 	   The schedules are supervised by 42 foreign coaches who areassisted by 35 local coaches. 	   He said though in 1992, only badminton salvaged national pride,weight lifting, shooting, gymnastics and bowling are expected tobring Malaysia medals this year. 
	   The Opposition leader had questioned the rationale in acceptingMAS Catering's offer of providing food for the athletes at RM120per day per athlete, taking into consideration current economicconditions. 	    APW19980424. 0893  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:54:00 Judge says goverment was too sensitive to teacher's math exercise BLANTYRE, Malawi (AP) _ A judge said the government was beingtoo sensitive when it suspended a math teacher for comparing thesize of a coin image of President Bakili Muluzi with that of hispredecessor in a class exercise. 	   Blantyre High Court Judge Eric Kumitsonyo said Thursday that hecould find ``nothing derogatory'' in teacher Felix Mchami's remarkthat Muluzi's image on a coin was larger than that of the latedictator Kamuzu Banda. 	   ``Is it not true that the face of Muluzi fills the coin? And ifit is full, so what?'' Kumitsonyo said. 	   Kumitsonyo adjourned the hearing and did not indicate when hewill make a ruling. 	   Mchami, who asked his pupils to measure the images during alesson on circumference and circles, sued education authorities forwrongful dismissal.  He said he was suspended for allegedlyinsulting Muluzi and undermining his presidential authority. 	   The teacher, 6th graf pvs. 
0894  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:55:00 MALAYSIA	   COPYRIGHT 1998 BY WORLDSOURCES, INC. , A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH,INC.  AND WORLD TIMES, INC.  NO PORTION OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINEDHEREIN MAY BE USED	   IN ANY MEDIA WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION TO WORLDSOURCES, INC. 	   BETWEEN 1996 and last year, only 21. 3 per cent, or 42,051, ofthe 235,000 low-cost houses targeted by the Government under theSeventh Malaysia Plan had been built by the various States, theHouse was told yesterday. 	   Deputy Minister of Housing and Local Government Peter Chin FahKui said of this number, Pahang had achieved 47. 34 per cent of itstarget, Johor 41. 77 per cent, Malacca 40. 
93 per cent. 	   He said the achievement rate for other States was below 30 percent. 	   Replying to a question by Datuk Mahbud Hashim (BN-Sabak Bernam),he said the Government had taken measures to ensure work on suchprojects was expedited by the States. 	   The setting up of the National Housing Corporation, he said,would ensure the quality of houses and that developers were moreresponsible towards low-cost projects. 	   He said under the Seventh Plan, the corporate sector would alsobe responsible for building low-cost houses. 	    APW19980424. 0895  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:55:00 Workers reject wage package, set stage for general strike COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) _ Denmark's largest industrial unionshave rejected a wage proposal, setting the stage for a nationwidegeneral strike, officials announced Friday. 	   State mediator Asbjoern Jensen announced that 56 percent ofthose voting on the proposal turned it down.  The rejection means ageneral strike is likely to begin on Monday, barring last-minutegovernment intervention that could stave it off. 
	   A postponement had been widely expected in case of a strike. Many observers believed the government would not risk placing thetreaty before Denmark's voters _ who are perpetually uneasy withthe EU _ during a period of disorder. 	   Nyrup Rasmussen also said the government would not intervene ina strike. 	   If a strike includes workers who stay off the job in sympathywith the unions who rejected the pact, an estimated 400,000 peoplecould be involved.  That could bring the country to a virtual halt. 	   A general strike would quickly ramify throughout Europe. Copenhagen is the main air transport hub for the Nordic region andDenmark is the primary route for Norwegian and Swedish exports toreach the rest of Europe. 	   ``The strike came out of the blue,'' said Ask Hamstrup, anoffice clerk heading into a supermarket.  ``This means that we haveto hamster,'' he said, referring to the rodents' practice ofstoring food in their cheeks. 
 Mostobservers had expected the unions would approve the compromiseagreement worked out in March with the Confederation of DanishIndustries. 	   The package included an extra paid day off, pensioncontributions increasing by 0. 9 percent per year and the minimumwage would increase by 2 kroner (28 cents) over the next two years. The minimum wage is 76. 40 kroner (dlrs 10. 6) an hour.  APW19980424. 0896  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:55:00 Security Council members express need for political will to help UNITED NATIONS (AP) _ U. N. 
	   The calls came during an all-day debate on Africa to reviewSecretary-General Kofi Annan's report last week, in which heoutlined goals for the United Nations in assisting the world's mostunder-developed continent. 	   Annan, the first sub-Saharan African to head the United Nations,said that African leaders must be willing to combat corruption,protect human rights and pursue sound economic policies. 	   At the same time, Annan said, the international community mustrespond by investing in Africa and by intervening to end armedconflicts and restore stability. 	   Echoing Annan's comments, Portugal's U. N.  ambassador, AntonioMonteiro, said ``political will is needed from the internationalcommunity'' to help Africa overcome its political problems. 	   ``And will and courage is very much needed to avoid futuresituations in which the United Nations is unfortunately seen tohave turned its back on the African people,'' Monteiro said. ``Concrete measures should be considered to ensure that the UnitedNations and the Security Council in particular provide a timelyresponse to impending crises. ''	   But the council's willingness to intervene in African crises wasweakened by the disastrous failure of the U. 
 peacekeepingoperation in Somalia. 	   The deaths of 18 American soldiers in a gun battle in 1993 ledthe United States to withdraw from the Somali operation and imposestringent conditions on future U. N.  peacekeeping missions. 	   U. N.  officials have complained those conditions have made itnearly impossible for the United Nations to respond quickly toAfrican crises.  They point to the U. S. 
N.  response to the 1994 massacre of up to 500,000Rwandan Tutsis and moderate Hutus by Hutu extremists. 	   ``The experience of intervention in Somalia was a bitter one butthat of non-intervention in Rwanda was perhaps worse,'' BritishAmbassador John Weston told the council. 	   He cited the U. N.  success in supervising the transition ofEastern Slavonia from Serb to Croat control as an example of howthe United Nations could be effective ``given the right mandatesand resources. ''	   The Security Council asked Annan to prepare the report followinga meeting on Africa held in September. 	   On Wednesday, Annan begins a tour of eight African countries _Ethiopia, Djibouti, Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda andEritrea.  APW19980424. 
	   The election, set for Sunday, has attracted national attentionbecause Russia's former security chief Alexander Lebed is one ofthe candidates. 	   Russian news agencies reported Friday that police hadconfiscated 850,000 copies of a newspaper published by Lebed'scampaign because it allegedly contained libelous material about hischief rival, incumbent Gov.  Valery Zubov. 	   Lebed called the charge ``absurd,'' and said unspecified rivalshad been carrying out dirty tricks against his campaign, includinghaving someone hand out condoms to young schoolchildren in Lebed'sname. 	   The Lebed newspaper, Krasnoyarski Krai, was confiscated onWednesday from a printing plant, authorities said.  Local televisionshowed copies of the newspaper and the offending article, headlined``Look out, Provocation!''	   The article declared that Zubov was considering acts ofvandalism, including ``accidents at the power stations, the cuttingoff of electricity, water, transportation, communications . . .  toprovoke dissatisfaction of the populace and to cause panic. 
	   Lebed, in an interview with The Associated Press, denied anyknowledge of the article and said there had been no justificationfor seizing the newspapers. 	   ``I think it is the activity of the governor,'' he said.  He wenton to say that there had been numerous dirty tricks played on hiscampaign. 	   ``I am categorically against these dirty tricks,'' he said.  ``Iam eager to increase positive things. ''	   (ml/gm) 	    APW19980424. 0899  NEWS STORY  04/24/1998 11:55:00 MALAYSIA	   COPYRIGHT 1998 BY WORLDSOURCES, INC. , A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH,INC.  AND WORLD TIMES, INC. 
	   THE country's demand for water for the year 2020 is estimated tobe 39,298 million litres per day, the House was told. 	   Deputy Works Minister Datuk Railey Jeffrey said this estimatetook into consideration population growth at 2. 5 per cent and waterdemand growth at 6. 7 per cent annually. 	   At present, the necessary infrastructure development to caterfor this estimated supply was underway. 	   He said that reviews were conducted regularly and the projectswould be updated if the need arose. 	   Railey said this in response to Datuk Hon Choon Kim(BN-Seremban) who had asked about the estimated water demand andsupply for the country until 2020 and whether the Governmentintended to form a water authority to co-ordinate the water supplyin all States. 	   On the formation of a national water authority, he said theGovernment had agreed to the formation of a National Water Council. 	    APW19980424. 
	   Initial reports said the explosion late Thursday night hadoccurred in the nearby city of Ilesha, about 200 kilometers (125miles) northeast of the commercial capital Lagos. 	   Several other people were wounded. 	   The cause of the blast was not given, but the radio report saidit was similar to an explosion one night earlier that killed threepeople in a Lagos suburb. 	   The town's military governor on Friday inspected the site of theexplosion in Ife, but few details were made public. 	   Authorities have not said whether either explosion was caused bya bomb, but church leaders and opponents of Nigeria's rulingmilitary junta have warned of violence if the army does not stepdown from power. 	   Thursday's blast came just days before nationwide voting inlegislative elections _ part of a transition process from militaryto civilian rule in Nigeria. 	   Opponents have called the transition a sham and have vowed toboycott voting in Saturday's legislative polls and in presidentialelections later this year. 	   Bomb experts in Lagos, meanwhile, were sifting through debrisfrom a blast Wednesday night that left a huge crater in aresidential street. 	   Victims in that explosion were outside watching a soccer matchon a television that had been placed in a neighbor's yard when theexplosion occurred. 
 Sani Abacha becomes presidentlater this year. 	   Abacha, a devout Muslim, has very little support in thecountry's south, where Christians say they face discrimination andrepression from the military junta. 	   Opposition and pro-democracy groups are outraged at the recentunanimous presidential nominations of Abacha by Nigeria's fivepolitical parties.  Most of his opponents have said the nominationprocess was rigged to eliminate any competition. 	   Presidential elections will now take the form of a referendum tovote for or against Abacha's uncontested nomination. 	   Abacha seized power in a bloodless 1993 coup and has since facedinternational criticizing for rampant human rights abuses andrefusing to hand power over to a civilian government.  	   . 
 APW19980429. 1258  NEWS STORY  04/29/1998 15:10:00 Tickets for 1999 championship to go on sale Friday LOS ANGELES (AP) _ Ranging in price from dlrs 18 for thecheapest first-round seat to dlrs 100 for the most expensive placeat the final, tickets for the 1999 Women's World Cup go on saleFriday. 	   Just as for the 1994 men's World Cup, the sale will be in stageswith tickets initially available only to the ``U. S.  Soccer Family''from May 1-31.  People purchasing tickets then will receive 5-15percent discount. 	   Members of U. S.  Soccer Family include members of the U. S. 
S.  national teamgame over approximately the past four years. 	   Tickets for the general public will be placed on sale in thefall at date yet to be determined. 	   All tickets at first will have to be purchased in a series,meaning an individual must buy a ticket for each World Cup event ata particular venue, including including quarterfinals andsemifinals. 	   A date for single-game sales have not been announced. 	   At the 1994 World Cup, initial sales required individuals to buytickets for all first- and second-round games at a particularvenue. 	   Except for the semifinals, all Women's World Cup events aredoubleheaders, including the final, which will be preceeded by thethird-place game.  That squeezes the 32-game, 16-team tournament,scheduled for June 19-July 10, 1999, into 17 dates. 	   The least expensive series is dlrs 36 (dlrs 32 for the U. 
family) for the two first-round events at Chicago's Soldier field. The most expensive is dlrs 190 (dlrs 175 for the U. S.  family) forthe first-round, quarterfinals and semifinal at San Francisco-SanJose, California. 	   About 500,000 tickets will be available, as compared to theapproximately 2. 5 million for the 1994 men's championship, whenprices ranged from dlrs 25 for a first-round match to dlrs 475 forthe best seat at the final.  APW19980429. 1260  NEWS STORY  04/29/1998 15:11:00 Russian launches military satellite MOSCOW (AP) _ Russia's strategic missile force launched amilitary satellite on Wednesday, Mission Control said. 	   The Kosmos-2350 satellite was sent into orbit with a Protonrocket from the Baikonur launch site in the Central Asian nation ofKazakstan, it said, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
1268  NEWS STORY  04/29/1998 15:13:00 Police have killer of 11-year-old girl BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) _ Police said Wednesday that a19-year-old man had confessed to killing an 11-year-old girl, whosebrutal stabbing at her home earlier this month caught nationwideattention. 	   The state news agency MTI reported the arrest of a man othermedia identified as Gabor Tanczos, who reportedly followed the girlhome April 3.  She did not close the door properly, as she was aboutto leave for a music class, when her killer walked in, hit her andthen stabbed her to death, according to media accounts. 	   Her mother and brother were abroad and her father, who was topick her up at school, was delayed when his car broke down. 	   The murder shocked the small town of Koermend, 200 kilometers(125 miles) southwest of Budapest, and the nation.  Extra policewere sent to the town to patrol. 	   Tanczos was questioned by police.  Contradictions in his accountled investigators to take a closer look, when they found hisfingerprints in the girl's home, MTI said. 	   The young man then confessed, it reported, adding that policestill do not know the motive. 
	   (ab/as). 
 NYT19980315. 0063  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 16:37:00 PUBLIC RADIO HOSTS DROP IN AND MAYBE STAY TOO LONG	   For almost 20 years, since its debut in 1979, Bob Edwards haspresided over the National Public Radio news magazine ``MorningEdition. '' But from the start, the soothing, avuncular tone that isEdwards' trademark raised certain questions. 	   ``Isn't that man dangerous?'' a 10-year-old in the school carpool I was driving asked in 1980. 	   I couldn't imagine what could be less dangerous.  ``What are youtalking about?'' I asked. 	   ``It's early in the morning,'' she said.  ``There are all thesepeople driving around.  He's going to make them all go back tosleep. ''	   Like a number of other high-profile NPR news-magazine hosts ornews readers, Edwards conveys a distinct sense of disengagementwith the subjects he is presenting: the latest Serbian atrocitiesor an odd little cow-up-a-tree human-interest story from Iowa. 
 It's shared by the ``All ThingsConsidered'' hosts, Robert Siegel and Linda Wertheimer, and thehourly news reader Ann Taylor as, year by year, day by day, theywend their way through the vagaries of events and time.  What comesacross is a sense of boredom with the world. 	   With Edwards, boredom might be the product.  He is not remotelyoffensive; he is always patient.  He sounds as if he has all thetime in the world.  Pleasantly, like a neighbor who drops in forcoffee every morning at precisely the same time, Edwards conveysthe feeling that nothing can really surprise him.  What could bemore reassuring? On and on he drones, with little broadcastingpronunciation tics to keep your ear attuned to the blanket ofsyllables issuing from his mouth: a singsongy rhythm, pauses thatbreak the rhythm, a warm, soft entrance into the next clause thatrestores the continuity. 	   It begins to seem certain that nothing will ever change.  Notonly will the sun rise tomorrow, Edwards' performance says, it willrise tomorrow in exactly the same manner in which it rose today. 
 Set forth in a lesskindly manner, the same story is told by Siegel, Ms.  Wertheimer andMs.  Taylor.  Edwards' patience is replaced by impatience.  The worldwill never change, these people are telling you, but, maddeningly,the world keeps pretending that it does change. 	   The bored, contemptuous, irritated assumption seems to be thatwhile, say, Bill Clinton is transitory, Siegel or Ms.  Wertheimer _and, by implication, the faithful NPR listener _ are permanent. This is often communicated on ``All Things Considered'' before andafter any particular information or opinion.  The White Housecorrespondent, Mara Liasson, or the legal affairs correspondent,Nina Totenberg, may offer detailed, nuanced and, most importantly,involved reports. 
 Wertheimer sweeping up, itis all translated into attitude.  One can get the feeling that thebumper stickers on their cars would read ``I'd Rather Be Attendingan Embassy Reception,'' if the very idea of a bumper sticker wasn'timpossibly vulgar. 	   Ms.  Wertheimer and the afternoon news reader, Ms.  Taylor, sharethe remarkable ability to look down their noses while talkingthrough them.  Speaking from NPR's Washington headquarters, they canmake the rest of the country, even New York _ so ethnic, so exoticwith local custom _ seem like a tired but mildly diverting playstaged for their laconic amusement. 	   Siegel works differently.  His speech is clipped, with wordssuddenly hurried or inexplicably dragged out, mumbled or swallowed:aural hooks, the equivalent of serifs on a type face, except thatserifs don't call attention to themselves.  There's a lot of DickCavett in Siegel's interviewing style. 
 He's like awell-prepared lawyer who seems never to ask a question to which hedoesn't already know the answer. 	   It's that denial of the chance of surprise that is so deadening. There is nothing new under the sun, least of all anything we mightwant to raise our voices over.  Perhaps the most powerful moment ofnews reporting I ever experienced took place in 1978, on the nightthe news of the mass suicides and murders at Jonestown began tobreak.  On television, on the evening network news show, the anchorsummed up the facts as they were known, looked at the papers on hisdesk and, lowering his voice, spoke of ``this awful story. ''	   He broke the code of news broadcasting, the unspoken messagethat all things under the sun take place within the limits of whatis already known, and it was shocking.  That code is a lot of whatNPR is selling. 	   The antiphon to the cool school of NPR broadcasting is providedby Terry Gross of ``Fresh Air,'' the daily one-hour interview andarts program that originates from public radio station WHYY inPhiladelphia.  Ms. 
 Yet each one seems to begin a tale from the beginning. Though the show is conducted mostly by remote hookups, theatmosphere is invariably intimate and open.  The feeling is thatanything can happen; anything might be said. 	   Ms.  Gross is characteristically eager, but not naive.  You hearenthusiasm in her voice, but also experience and skepticism.  Moreoften than not, people are on her show to sell their books, but sheis doing the show to bring them, and what they are writing about,to life.  She knows how to let people talk; she's not afraid ofsilences, or above a noisy ``Blech!'' when she's repulsed by acreepy story.  She's dogged; she can give the impression that shewill wait around all day if that's what it takes to get someone tostop faking. 
'' He spoke in a slow, gravelly,leering voice; as an armed robber, he said, he had lived ``theAmerican dream in person. ''	   He met Ms.  Gross' questions with heavy sighs, as if to say:``Where's this chick been all her life? Man, do I have to explaineverything? It's in the book!'' Asked about how he felt whilecommitting robbery, Miller began to laugh, with a smug insistencethat he knew things Ms.  Gross would never know.  ``What's sofunny?'' Ms.  Gross asked in her high, pleasant, disarming voice _ avoice that in an instant had turned into a knife _ and finallyMiller started talking. 	   ``Fresh Air'' started as a local show in Philadelphia in 1975,Ms.  Gross explained when we talked last week.  It went national in1985, daily in 1987. 
``Yeah!'' Ms.  Gross said.  NYT19980315. 0064  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 16:51:00 IN CYBERSPACE, IS THERE LAW WHERE THERE IS NO LAND?	   Cyberspace, only yesterday the proud Wild West of theinformation age, is rapidly being settled and tamed.  The bestevidence is a sudden _ and some might say alarming _ infestation bya new species, the cyberlawyers. 	   They seem to be everywhere. 	   Last month, at the Computers, Freedom and Privacy conference _an annual gathering once dominated by hackers and security agents _they clogged panels with subjects like ``Government jurisdictionover cyberspace transactions. ''	   Each week, they post hundreds of messages to their own``Cyberia'' e-mail list, pondering matters like ``Usenet DeathPenalty _ Legal?'' And a pack of cyberlawyers are petitioning theWhite House for access to its planned conference on Internetprivacy. 	   The nation's top law schools are vying to dominate an area ofjurisprudence called cyberlaw, while law firms promoting suchpractices are becoming as ubiquitous as spam e-mail. 
''	   Whatever happened to the electronic frontier? Perhaps, as theylike to say in the legal trade, res ipsa loquitur _ the thingspeaks for itself. 	   The Internet has changed from a playground for like-mindedlibertarians to a workplace and social space for millions.  Thelatest settlers have little interest in the cyberstate of nature orthe utopian manifestoes of pioneers, like John Perry Barlow'soft-cited ``A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace,''which defied any state's assertion of control over the Internet. 	   That is where the lawyers come in. 	   ``It's like when you start a colony,'' said Mike Godwin, chiefcounsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an advocacy groupthat only a few years ago was practically alone in the field.  ``Thefirst thing you do is you find out where the water is.  The nextthing you do is form couples, start families.  The notion of havinglaw, which is a way to order social interactions, only happensafter you have a lot of social interactions such that they becomeproblematic. ''	   But in a legal system that reveres precedent and relies onanalogy, even defining the nature of an Internet-related disputecan be a source of contention. 
S.  government sues Microsoft Corp. , charging it withantitrust violations.  How is monopoly measured in an informationage?	   _ A White House aide, Sidney Blumenthal, sues an Internet gossipcolumnist, Matt Drudge, for libel.  What is the burden of proof andwhat are the remedies for libel on the Internet, where everyone canbe a publisher? Moreover, can Drudge be sued in the District ofColumbia for an item that he posted on his World Wide Web site inLos Angeles?	   _ America Online sues for an injunction against multipledistributors of junk e-mail.  Is such ``spam'' mail a violation ofprivacy? Would attempts to block it violate the First Amendment?	   _ A mathematics professor is suing the U. S.  government fordenying his application to send an encryption program over theInternet.  Should the government be able to prevent him on nationalsecurity grounds, or would that violate his free-speech rights?	   Cindy Cohn, the lawyer representing the math professor, said itwas in part the lure of the unknown that made cyberspace law soappealing. 
Cohn, a partner in the McGlashan &AMP; Sarrail firm in San Mateo,Calif.  ``With nine-tenths of my other cases, the same issue hasalready been decided.  With this, you can say maybe you need tothink in a new way about it. ''	   Ms.  Cohn is scheduled to testify Tuesday before a SenateJudiciary Committee subcommittee on proposed encryptionlegislation. 	   Not everyone is as sanguine about the prospect of a clean legalslate. 	   What is at stake, legal experts say, is whether the values thatevolved over two centuries of case law will apply in cyberspace _and what those decisions will teach us about the law in real space. 	   ``There is anxiety, yes,'' said Judge Stewart Dalzell, a federalcircuit court judge.  Alluding to his role last year in overturningthe Communications Decency Act, a landmark decision for cyberspacelaw that was later upheld by the Supreme Court, Dalzell recalled:``I know going in that when I started to hear the testimony I went,`Oh my God! Oh my God! I have to learn about packet switching?' Andhad we gone down the wrong path, it could have done immensemischief to the medium. 
 OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   As judges and lawyers search for metaphors, elite law schoolsare scurrying to stake their claims as the center of legal theorythat will make sense of it all _ and to lure cutting-edge lawprofessors and attract students eager to enter what looks to be alucrative new field of practice. 	   Earlier this month, Harvard Law School said it had received a$5. 4 million donation from the estate of Jack N.  Berkman, analumnus, and his wife, Lillian R.  Berkman to support its Center forInternet and Society, which was established last year and isoverseen by Jonathan Zittrain, the executive director. 	   Prof.  Charles Nesson, the center's director, said the moneywould be used in part to experiment with opening up the gates ofthe august institution to the general public.  More than 1,000people have enrolled in Privacy in Cyberspace, the center's firstfree no-credit course offered over the Internet. 	   The gift will also endow a professorship. 
 (Lessig'sinvestigation has been suspended pending an appeals court decisionon the propriety of his appointment. )	   Not to be outdone, Harvard's longtime rival, Yale Law School,made Lessig a standing job offer as part of its effort tojump-start its Information Society Project.  The school has offeredvisiting professorships to two intellectual property experts: JamesBoyle from American University and Robert Mergess, the co-directorof the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology at the University ofCalifornia. 	   ``Yale is going to be the place to be for cyberlaw,'' said JackBalkin, director of the school's program.  ``What happened at Yaleis, nobody came to us and said, `Here's some money.  Go found atechnology center. ' This was something we identified as apriority. ''	   Yale's stance is making other schools nervous.  ``The competitionhas definitely heated up,'' said Pam Samuelson, who helped foundBerkeley's center two years ago and hopes that Mergess will stayput. 
 Samuelson, a leading critic of the Clinton administration'sproposal to adapt copyright law to cyberspace, said Berkeley'sadvantage was being in the midst of the industry that is creatingso many of today's legal challenges. 	   Ms.  Samuelson said that centers like Berkeley's would teachdifferent skills and values than the traditional law schoolcurriculum has taught. 	   ``Rather than trying to develop fixed sets of black-letter lawrules that you can memorize and then apply, this requires thatstudents learn to be supple and adaptable,'' Ms.  Samuelson said. 	   Although by most accounts Harvard, Yale and Berkeley have thestrongest offerings, expertise in the field has spread.  MichaelFroomkin at the University of Miami has published several articleson law and cryptography, for example; Dan Burk at Seton HallUniversity is an expert on jurisdictional issues in cyberspace. 	   David Post, co-founder of the Cyberspace Law Institute and now aprofessor at Temple University Law School, is at the center of anactive debate among lawyers about whether the emergence ofcyberspace requires a whole new legal model. 	   ``There is a division between the incrementalists and theradicals,'' Post said. 
''	   The stress that the new technology places on existing law hasprovoked some scholars to argue that cyberspace needs laws of itsown in areas like copyright and privacy.  Others wonder whether at atime when private companies wield power over online behavior bycomputer code, constitutional principles should regulate private aswell as state action. 	   But many legal scholars scoff at the notion that cyberspacepresents the need for a new discipline.  Among them is Judge FrankEasterbrook of the 7th U. S.  Circuit Court of Appeals and aprofessor at the University of Chicago.  In an article for theUniversity of Chicago Law Review titled ``Cyberspace and the Law ofthe Horse,'' Easterbrook warned of ``multidisciplinarydilettantism. '' A law of cyberspace makes about as much sense as alaw of horses, he said. 	   Still, even critics agree that the emergence of cyberspace isforcing the deepest and most critical consideration in years of lawin general. 
 ``What really came rushing to the fore for mein this class is that this should give us pause to examine some ofour basic understandings about the purpose of government and thepurpose of law. '' NYT19980315. 0067  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:10:00 THE SITES: TUNING INTO MUSIC ON THE WEB	   Once upon a time, before the Internet had pictures and was allthe rage, Quincy Jones, the music impresario, sat with Bill Gates,the computer magnate, at a technology conference, talking about thefuture.  The year was 1992, and the conversation was a melding ofthe two titans' respective passions: the preservation of musicalcultures and the nascent online universe that would becomecyberspace. 	   It took six years to realize a complete fusion of the visionthat emerged that night.  On Wednesday, Jones will introduce Qradio,a venture that marries the Internet to his advocacy of the rich,varied and largely unknown music of developing nations.  ``Webradio,'' a technology that transmits audio programming toInternet-connected personal computers, offers the potential toreach a wide audience at a fraction of the cost of traditionalbroadcasting. 	   ``It's a different sort of landscape, a 21st-century language,''Jones said of the Internet. 	   But while his site is devoted to music, unlike broadcast radio,it is not limited to sound. 
	   Though it is being formally introduced this week, Qradio beganin February with an initial focus on South Africa.  It offers a database of South African musicians, including biographies,discographies and sample clips, a multimedia history of musicalevolution in the region and continuous feeds of three of SouthAfrican Broadcasting Corp. 's 16 radio stations. 	   Qradio, which was started with $5 million in privateinvestments, plans to sell advertising, but it hopes to deriverevenue from the sale of CDs and audio tapes marketed by means ofonline music samples. 	   Jones and his partners in the venture say they hope eventuallyto broaden the site to embrace music from other parts of Africa, aswell as from the Americas.  Ultimately, it could serve as a mediumfor breeding new species of music, but for now, Jones suggests thatthe goal is to build bridges between cultures and technologicalclasses. 	   ``Here we are, entering the next century,'' he said.  ``Thatnumber with three zeroes behind it is very heavy.  It's ironic _here we are dealing with the Internet and some of these people inSouth Africa don't have electricity. 
 At the time, Powell said, thetwo men discussed the feasibility of a cable channel to promote thevarious indigenous musical cultures of the region, but the costsfor such a venture were prohibitive. 	   Even then, Powell said, the notion of using online technologiesas a delivery mechanism piqued Jones' interest.  ``We have got tocome back,'' to South Africa, Powell, now the vice president fortechnology and programs of the Freedom Forum in Arlington, Va. ,recalls his friend saying. 	   It would take the development of the World Wide Web and thetechnology known as streaming audio before the possibility ofonline radio transmission would be realized.  But the technologyalone cannot ensure that anyone will be listening, and industryanalysts question whether a medium born in the 1920s will ever findan acceptable fit in the medium of the millennium. 	   ``To put radio on the Internet is not what it's all about,''said Alan Brody, an independent media analyst in Scarsdale, N. Y. ``It's like using TV to broadcast shipbuilding information. 
 The future is inpersonalizing what we hear on the radio. ''	   Powell disagreed.  Now that virtually all new personal computersare equipped with audio capability, more people than ever will usethe Web as a platform for radio-like programming. 	   ``Radio is the most ubiquitous medium we have,'' Powell said. ``It's a form familiar to us as a species.  We have a long traditionof oral history, and this fits that tradition. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   What is more, Qradio starts at a time when music is among thefew real success stories in the online marketing efforts lumpedtogether under the term electronic commerce.  At-Plan, a marketingresearch firm, says its latest data show that CDs and tapes are thefifth-most-popular product sold on the Web, bought by 1. 
	   The question with Qradio, as it is with many new onlineventures, is whether enough visitors will frequent and shop at aniche Web site to make it financially viable.  Distinguishingoneself in new media, experts in online broadcasting say, demands adelicate balancing act _ a product that is narrowly focused enoughthat an audience cannot get it elsewhere yet of broad enough appealto support advertising and direct online sales. 	   Many other players in the medium are embracing a more horizontalstrategy. 	   The print publishing group Imagine Media of Brisbane, Calif. ,which specializes in computer-oriented magazines, last week starteda new Internet service called Imagine Radio, a group of 20 originalradio stations created just for the Web.  Audio Net, a Dallas-basedcompany that has been in the streaming audio business for two and ahalf years, offers 260 radio and television stations from aroundthe country, plus some 400 special events each day. 	   ``When you're in your car you've got 30 radio stations,'' saidAudio Net's president, Mark Cuban.  ``On TV, there are 20 to 100stations.  On the Net, you have millions. 
 It's expensive to besuccessful.  It's really easy to get in the door.  It's difficult tomake money. ''	   Vern Fotheringham, a founding partner of Qradio, said: ``Themore people who denigrate Internet opportunities, the better I likeit.  It means there are fewer people out there trying to buildfallow content.  We're about marrying the capture of content whileeveryone is looking at it as a substandard, living today butprospering in the future. 	   But after 50 years in the music business, Jones says that whatis most important is encouraging the development of a medium thatspeaks to people across cultures and economic levels. 	   ``It's very important that the urban voice gets in there,'' hesaid.  ``You know _ a PC in every pot. 
qradio. net	   IMAGINE RADIO	   http://www. imagineradio. com	   AUDIONET	   http://www. audionet. com NYT19980315. 0069  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:26:00 ANALYSIS: TAXING INTERNET SALES _ GOVERNORS VS.  TAX FREEDOM ACT	   Buoyed by White House support and facing only tepid oppositionfrom the nation's governors, Silicon Valley has state and local taxcollectors on the defensive: Congress is on the verge of passinglegislation that would effectively bar sales taxes on Internettransactions until 2004. 	   ``The outcome is not in doubt,'' said Rep. 
, who is sponsoring the Internet Tax Freedom Act in theHouse. 	   The bill responds to fears that a thicket of conflicting taxeswill choke off the growth of Internet commerce, in particularinhibiting its use by small businesses that could not cope with theburden of the paperwork.  But some analysts _ and many governors _worry that a federal moratorium would set a precedent that wouldpermanently deprive state and local governments of a huge potentialrevenue source. 	   ``If we don't tax Internet commerce now, it will never betaxed,'' said William Gale, an economist at the BrookingsInstitution, the research group in Washington. 	   With a few exceptions, states have made little effort to taxInternet service providers like America Online.  Retail salesthrough the Internet are, in theory, covered by ``use'' taxes thatrequire consumers to pay taxes in their home states no matter wherethey buy.  But under Supreme Court rulings, one state cannot compela merchant in another to collect use taxes unless the merchant hasa substantial business presence in the state where the buyer lives. 	   That has not prevented businesses from imagining a day whenstates try to tax Internet use.  In a survey of executives fromlarge retailers and media corporations conducted by KPMG PeatMarwick in 1996, half said that tax ambiguities had alreadytempered plans for Internet commerce. 
 Ron Wyden, D-Ore. ,along with Cox, has been leading the charge for a legislativeremedy. 	   The Senate and House bills that have emerged from committeewould bar taxes on monthly Internet access charges until January2002.  State and local governments would remain free to taxpurchases made on the Internet, but the Cox-Wyden bill would barattempts to go beyond the limits on out-of-state collection set bythe Supreme Court. 	   ``The states would be no less able to collect sales taxes thanthey are today,'' Cox said. 	   Many tax specialists sympathize with efforts to avoiddiscriminatory taxes on Internet service providers.  ``States arenotorious for their inconsistencies, taxing services on ahit-or-miss basis,'' said Joel Slemrod, an economist at theUniversity of Michigan's business school. 	   By the same token, many sympathize with the problems thatbusinesses _ particularly ``mom and pop'' stores expanding onto theInternet _ potentially face in selling to customers in thousands ofdifferent tax districts. 	   But they are wary of precedents that effectively put Internetsales out of bounds to state and local tax collectors. 
	   Led by Gov.  Michael Leavitt of Utah and Gov.  Roy Romer ofColorado, the association is willing to accept a permanentprohibition on taxing access to the Internet.  But in return, itwants Washington to give individual states a powerful incentive tocreate a single consolidated tax on out-of-state purchases, bothelectronic and mail order. 	   The association's proposal would override the Supreme Courtruling by requiring large vendors to collect use taxes on behalf ofstates as long as the states conformed to a single tax structure. ``Now is the time for a system that creates a level playing filedfor all sellers,'' Leavitt said. 	   But the governors' approach faces strong opposition.  Althoughtheir bill would meet the primary objective of Internet serviceproviders, it would also open Internet commerce to taxation.  ``Wesee this as a new tax that would generate $16 billion in revenue bythe year 2000,'' Wyden said. 
	   And because there is hardly a ground swell for such a move inCongress, there might be no legislation at all _ a result thatwould not unduly disturb most opponents of the Internet Tax FreedomAct. 	   The governors, it is generally conceded, are playing a weakpolitical hand.  House leaders are promising a floor vote on theCox-Wyden bill this month.  And last week, Senate Majority LeaserTrent Lott, R-Miss. , predicted that the bill would come to a votein the Senate by May. 	   The real question, then, is whether the governors can salvage acompromise with the bill's congressional sponsors.  ``I'm persuadedthere is still a lot of common ground here,'' Leavitt said.  NYT19980315. 0070  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:27:00 A SEARCH ENGINE THAT CHARGES FOR TOP BILLING	   In the world of Internet search services, finding just the rightbusiness model is proving as elusive as finding an entirelyrelevant list of search results. 
	   Yahoo, the biggest of the dozens of sites devoted to navigatingthe Web, is looking more like a commercial online service everyday, with ``channels'' that organize information into categories. Likewise, Excite and Lycos have also added chat rooms, electronicmail and a wide range of original content like news, financialservices, shopping and local entertainment guides. 	   And earlier this month, Infoseek announced its entry intoelectronic commerce, adding travel-booking and home-buyingservices. 	   ``The function of searching has become a commodity,'' said AlanBraverman, Internet analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston.  ``Sosearch engine companies are making a transition into Internet mediacompanies. ''	   And as they do, consumers are changing the way they use them. Search engines were originally developed to help Internet usersfind what they were looking for among the millions of pages on theWorld Wide Web, and as such they were judged solely by how well _and how quickly _ they matched key words to results.  Today,however, searching is only one small reason people go to sites likeYahoo, Lycos, Infoseek and Excite. 	   On Yahoo, for example, only one out of three users goes there tosearch, said Jerry Yang, co-founder of the company, which is basedin Santa Clara, Calif. 
 ``We certainly are becoming more online service-like,'' hesaid.  ``But that doesn't make our navigation service any lessimportant. ''	   It does, however, mean visitors to sites like Yahoo and Excitetend to stay longer _ and potentially do more _ than if the siteoffered only searching.  And that has translated into moreadvertising.  Last year, Yahoo was the top ad-supported Web site forthe second consecutive year, generating $53. 2 million inadvertising, according to the Electronic Advertising andMarketplace Report.  That is up 180 percent from $19. 0 million in1996.  Excite ranked second of all Web sites, generating $40. 
	   Despite a huge growth in advertising, profits have been elusivefor all but Yahoo and Lycos, which had its first profitable quarterin 1997.  Infoseek stumbled as it struggled with management changes,and has since refocused itself toward consumers rather thanbusinesses.  Excite lost money last year, though analysts appearbullish on its prospects. 	   But while Yahoo and others are trying to turn their sites intodestinations in themselves, an ambitious start-up is taking anentirely different approach.  Goto. com, a spinoff of Idealab, aself-described business incubator based in Los Angeles, says itwill focus entirely on searching and on making money by encouragingWeb sites to pay for more prominent placement in the searchresults. 	   Rather than ranking search results according to where and howoften certain key words appear, as conventional search engines do,Goto. com actually ranks results according to how much sites arewilling to pay.  The service posts the per-word pricing in an openauction, allowing Web sites to continually bid for higher placementon a given topic. 
com then requests that visitors vote on thequality and relevance of search results _ information that is laterused to improve future searches. 	   Bill Gross, president of Idealab, said an important differencebetween his approach and that of other search sites was thatGoto. com was not trying to become a media company.  ``They makemoney when you stay _ I make money when you leave,'' Gross said,comparing his service to the Yellow Pages.  ``We're changing thealignment of the proposition.  We really are a true search engine. ''	   By letting a combination of market forces and user feedbackdetermine the results of searches, Goto. com will actually providebetter results, he said.  ``We're not letting a blind algorithmdecide,'' Gross said. 
 But, hiscritics say, a true search engine is exactly what Goto. com is not. Its ``pay for placement'' approach leads to skewed results, theyargue, particularly when the information being sought is notreadily available on a commercial site. 	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   Yet Gross insists that nonprofit groups, universities and evenmedical organizations will find it in their interests to pay forplacement.  ``There's almost always a way that someone will makemoney by having you come to a site,'' he said.  ``Even if it'sphilanthropic, it wants your attention. ''	   And if some sites do not care to pay, they will still appear inthe search result _ at the bottom of the list of paid sites.  Thatway, at least, users will know where to find the smallest sites,rather than having them mixed in with larger, typically commercialsites. 
 Two years ago, Open TextCorp. , then a search service, allowed advertisers to pay forpremium placement in search results. 	   But the practice was quickly abandoned when consumerscomplained. 	   ``We got a pretty strong emotional response,'' said AbeKleinfield, a vice president at Open Text, based in Waterloo,Ontario.  ``People thought it was immoral. '' But the difference inapproach is important: Open Text did not tell users that it wasallowing companies to pay for higher placement; Goto. com is openabout the practice.  But regardless of the approach, Goto. com maynot succeed simply because it is so late to the market, analystssay. 
Success today comes from branding and distribution, and Yahoo and afew others are going to be tough competitors on both counts.  ``Themain reason people go to Yahoo is habit,'' he said.  Rather thanembrace new entries, he said, the market is likely to favor moreconsolidation. 	   Gross is confident that his strategy will work.  ``What theseguys have is traffic, but they don't have a good business model,''he said.  NYT19980315. 0071  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:28:00 COMING SOON: TV DOCUMENTARIES TO A BOOKSTORE NEAR YOU	   Although the TV-watching public has long been familiar withshows based on high-quality books, few readers have looked totelevision to produce good written works. 	   Peter Kaufman is trying to change that. 	   Kaufman, president of the privately held TV Books LLC, thinksthat ``much of the finest intellectual property in the world isbeing developed for television. 
	   Consider ``Reagan,'' a four-and-a-half-hour documentary that wasbroadcast recently on public television.  Produced as part of theaward-winning series ``The American Experience'' by WGBH in Boston,the program was a result of several years of research and study,but only a small percentage of the material made it into the finaldocumentary.  ``It seemed a shame to not use everything we hadgathered, but that is what happens in this business,'' saidMargaret Drain, executive producer of ``The American Experience. ''	   Enter Kaufman and his proposal for a book based on thatdocumentary and on others.  A resulting deal calls for TV Books topublish six books based on programs in the series over the next twoyears. 	   The first is ``Reagan: An American Story,'' which was written byAdriana Bosch, a producer of the documentary, and will arrive inbookstores in April.  ``The decision made sense on a lot oflevels,'' Ms.  Drain said, ``but mainly because it is a way for usto expand our brand. ''	   Kaufman would not disclose financial details of the deal. 
5 million this year and $5 millionin 1999.  Kaufman expects to publish 25 more titles this year. 	   Top-quality documentaries can cost more than $500,000 for asingle hour, and a majority of the interviews, archival photographsand scholarly research never make it past the cutting room. 	   For instance, only about 3 percent of the taped interviews madeit on the air in the Reagan documentary.  For producers anddirectors, a companion book has become a natural outlet for theunused material and another source of revenue.  And because theydraw on material already being produced, these types of books canhave lower development and marketing costs. 	   ``I think it is a viable business model,'' said Michael Coffey,managing editor of Publishers Weekly.  ``Long-form TV cannot coverall the bases, and books can serve to answer questions raised inthe show. '' Coffey ought to know: He is the editor of ``The Irishin America,'' a book published by Hyperion, a unit of Walt DisneyCo. 
	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   While generations of movies and television shows have had booktie-ins and hundreds of books have been made into feature films andtelevision movies, TV Books is thought to be the first publisherthat started as an independent company focusing solely on makingbooks from television and movies. 	   And in yet another example of the ever-expanding search forsynergy in the world of publishing, a majority stake in TV Bookswas acquired in December by Broadway Video Inc. , the film and TVcompany owned by Lorne Michaels, the executive producer of``Saturday Night Live. '' TV Books also signed a distribution dealwith HarperCollins, owned by News Corp. , which has significanttelevision interests. 	   ``The biggest influence in book sales today is clearlytelevision and films,'' Coffey said.  If a book is mentioned on``The Oprah Winfrey Show'' or tied to a movie, it can ``catchfire,'' he said.  Of course, not all books with a televisionconnection do well, but it certainly does not hurt to have exposurein the mass media. 
 The danger remains that if a television show is notsuccessful, then the books can languish at the store. 	   There are drawbacks to working with authors who are immersed intelevision or film projects.  They tend not to have time toconcentrate on the books until after completing work on the film. 	   For a tiny publishing house, TV Books has attracted importantauthors and tackled hard-hitting topics.  These include Russianhistory (``Russia's War: Blood Upon the Snow'' by Richard Overy,based on a 10-hour documentary); the Irish Republican Army(``Behind the Mask: The IRA and Sinn Fein'' by Peter Taylor) andArab-Israeli relations (``Israel and the Arabs: The 50 Years' War''by Ahron Bregman and Jihan El-Tahri). 	   James Billington, the librarian of Congress and a noted experton Russia, is writing a companion book to his three-hour publictelevision series, ``The Face of Russia. ''	   Jessica Yu, who won a 1997 Academy Award for her documentary``Breathing Lessons: The Life and Work of Mark O'Brien,'' signed adeal to write a book to go with a Home Box Office documentary abouta New York mental hospital.  The book and the film are scheduled tohave their debuts next spring. 	   Still, not all the offerings by TV Books are serious publicaffairs volumes. 
 NYT19980315. 0072  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:29:00 WEATHER	   Strong thunderstorms will be common from eastern Texas andOklahoma to the lower Mississippi Valley as a cold front movesslowly across the region.  Heavy rain in slow-moving storms willproduce local flooding. 	   One band of thunderstorms is expected to weaken Monday morningas it moves eastward into Louisiana.  Later Monday, a new area ofpotent thunderstorms will erupt over eastern Texas as a jet streamdisturbance passes overhead. 	   By late Monday, vigorous thunderstorms, some with damaging windand hail, will be over the southern Mississippi Valley.  Meanwhile,lighter showers will spread across the Tennessee Valley andsouthern Appalachians. 	   Farther north, clouds will cover most of the Plains states.  Rainwill be steadiest and heaviest near the southern Plains, whilespotty light rain is expected over central sections. 
 A few flurries will whiten the northern Dakotas. 	   The Northeast will be mainly sunny but chilly as sprawling highpressure moves slowly southeast from Ontario.  Clouds will begin toincrease later Monday from the southern Great Lakes to the MiddleAtlantic States. 	   Patchy mountain snow and valley showers will accompany astrengthening disturbance over the interior Northwest.  Overnight,several inches of snow will accumulate over parts of the northernRockies as colder air arrives from the north. 	   The Southwest will be mainly dry and mild.  A few clouds andscattered sprinkles will precede the arrival of cooler air overCalifornia and Nevada. 	   FOCUS: MARCH WINDS	   March is known for its wind.  The large temperature contrasts,which provide energy for storms linger during the third month. 
 While windswept snow plagued partsof the interior Northeast Friday, temperatures surged to near 60 inthe Middle Atlantic States.  On stormless days, the sun's energystirs up the lower atmosphere, blending winds near the ground withstonger winds from above, thereby spawning the famous breezes ofMarch.  NYT19980315. 0073  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:30:00 DICAPRIO, CHARISMATIC STAR, BALKS AT TEEN IDOL IMAGE HOLLYWOOD _ Ask the top talent agents in Hollywood or studioexecutives or producers for the name of the biggest star in town. It's not Tom Cruise or Mel Gibson or Harrison Ford.  The answer isone word: Leo. 	   Leonardo DiCaprio _ the few who know him and the many whopretend to know him call the actor Leo _ is not only Hollywood'shottest star as a result of ``Titanic'' and ``The Man in the IronMask'' but, by all accounts, the biggest star to have emerged inyears. 	   ``I've never seen a frenzy like this,'' said Sherry Lansing,chairwoman of the Paramount Motion Picture Group, which jointlyfinanced ``Titanic'' with 20th Century Fox.  ``I don't know what torelate it to _ the Beatles, Elvis, Frank Sinatra in his heyday. 
''	   The blond 23-year-old actor, whose androgynous good looks makehim seem almost like a teen-ager (which is part of his appeal toyoung girls), is, of course, the co-star with Kate Winslet of``Titanic,'' in which he plays the artist-lover of an unhappy richwoman about the doomed vessel. 	   The film has grossed more than $1 billion worldwide, abox-office record, and was in a dead heat last weekend to remain inthe No.  1 spot with ``The Man in the Iron Mask,'' a remake byRandall Wallace of the Dumas classic, which stars DiCaprio in thedual role of Louis XIV and his brother, Philippe.  Both filmsgrossed an estimated $17. 5 million. 	   DiCaprio's rapid rise to stardom is underscored by his financialdemands.  He signed on to ``Titanic'' for a reported $2. 5 million. He earned about $6 million for ``The Man in the Iron Mask,'' madeby United Artists, a division of MGM. 
	   Yet what seems highly unusual about DiCaprio, in contrast withstars like Cruise or Gibson, is that, by all accounts, he is notespecially comfortable with, and actually dislikes, his image as amovie idol, not only in the United States but abroad. 	   Several filmmakers who know him said that the star already felttrapped by his romantic image among teen-agers and viewed himselfas a serious actor who sought roles with other talented actors andA-list directors.  (His only other forthcoming role is in a newWoody Allen project, called ``Celebrity,'' to be released laterthis year. )	   What's also unusual about DiCaprio is that he does not fallwithin the tradition of rugged classic stars like Clark Gable, orromantic heroes like Cary Grant, or archetypal American figureslike James Stewart, or even character stars like Spencer Tracy,James Cagney or Humphrey Bogart. 	   Instead, DiCaprio seems to most resemble Montgomery Clift andJames Dean, whose performances were marked by brooding andsensitive roles that especially appealed to teen-agers. 	   DiCaprio's longevity as a star remains, of course, unknown.  Inpresent-day Hollywood, actors are heralded as stars, mostly by thepublicity machine, but then fade.  Last year Vanity Fair hailedMatthew McConaughey as the next Paul Newman.  But a series ofdisappointing films have dimmed McConaughey's stardom. 
	   Yet DiCaprio is seen, somehow, differently.  Since his teen-ageyears, he has been a sought-after actor in Hollywood and viewed asa performer with an unusually broad acting range. 	   ``People are confusing his looks with his talent,'' remarkedLindsay Doran, president of United Artists.  ``Look at the Beatles _it was the power of the music that created the emotion that got allmixed up with how adorable those guys were. ''	   DiCaprio earned an Academy Award nomination for best supportingactor at 19 for his portrayal of a mentally impaired youngster in``What's Eating Gilbert Grape. '' He gained further attention in``This Boy's Life'' (1993), a harrowing drama in which he playedopposite Ellen Barkin and Robert De Niro as the son of an abusivestepfather. 	   His breakthrough role, though, was in Baz Luhrmann's MTV-style``William Shakespeare's `Romeo and Juliet' '' in 1996, with ClaireDanes, an unexpected hit among teen-age girls that made studiosaware of DiCaprio's appeal. 	   ``With Leonardo DiCaprio it's charisma, pure and simple, and ifyou can define what charisma is, tell me and I'll bottle it,'' saidLaura Ziskin, president of Fox 2000, a division of 20th CenturyFox.  ``He's got an amazing gift as an actor, but so do a lot ofpeople. 
''	   DiCaprio, who began making television commercials at 14 and thenappeared on the television series ``Growing Pains,'' is almostreclusive and declines most interviews.  He appeared on NBC's``Today'' show last week to promote ``The Man in the Iron Mask''and said, ``I'm a lucky guy, I'm getting tons more opportunities. ''	   The fact that he was not nominated for an Academy Award _ incontrast with Ms.  Winslet _ was, he said, ``a non-issue. '' RickYorn, his manager at the firm Addis-Wechsler &AMP; Associates, wasunavailable. 	   Filmmakers who have worked with DiCaprio have said that hispresence on screen sets him apart from other actors. 	   Wallace, who adapted and directed ``The Man in the Iron Mask,''said: ``Most actors are like most people _ they're actually scaredto play roles in which they portray openness and heroism becausethey have an inherent and usually unspoken fear that to attemptsuch a role would be to reveal their own inherent shallowness andcowardice.  So actors hide behind quirkiness and cynicism.  No onewould accuse Leo of that. 
''	   Tom Rothman, president of production at 20th Century Fox, put inanother way:	   ``What you have in Leo is a gigantic star _ and remember, he's astar worldwide _ who's somehow able to open himself up on screenand let you in emotionally. . .  You feel what his character in`Titanic' feels.  The same with Romeo.  It's not just a question ofgood looks; there are plenty of good-looking guys out there.  On thescreen he's emotionally accessible.  How many actors are likethat?'' NYT19980315. 0074  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 17:36:00 	   You've read the book? Now see the television program. 
	   Admirers of ``Angela's Ashes'' will not be surprised to discoverthat the brothers' memories are at best bittersweet.  Given themiseries of their youth _ hunger and filth, early deaths and familydisarray _ the wonder is that these ``laners,'' the poorest ofIreland's poor, grew up at all, much less lived to sing about it. 	   The star of Tuesday's St.  Patrick's Day offering is, naturally,Frank McCourt, who turns out to be as talented a storyteller on thescreen as on the page.  But Alphie, Michael and Malachy (thedocumentary maker's dad) also contribute to this portrait of afamily on the loving edge. 	   Deserted by their father, a drinker, and desperately heldtogether as a family by their mother, Angela, the four survivorstell of doing battle in the slums, both physical and emotional. They grappled with grief and anger at the loss of their father andthe humiliation of seeing their mother begging for scraps on thehard streets. 	   ``We were always hungry, and there was never enough,'' saysMalachy, ``and you'd go to bed at night, starving. ''	   Their story is deeply personal yet broadens into the story oftough times for many. 
 But the memories of their tightknit yet unravelingneighborhood _ the squabbles, pettiness and snobbery amid thesecurity _ cut deep. 	   Harsh feelings, especially toward the church, which seemed tothem aloof to Limerick's down-and-out, have not been softened, andthe wounds of their father's abandonment have not healed.  FrankMcCourt says his book helped rid him of anger, but this affectingreunion suggests that these McCourts, all Americans now, are stillworking their ways out of a bitter past. 	   PRODUCTION NOTES:	   `THE McCOURTS OF LIMERICK'	   8 p. m.  ET Tuesday on Cinemax	   Original conception by Conor McCourt; directed by Conor McCourt;produced by Conor McCourt and Greg Dougherty; Charlotte Forest,executive producer for Homestead Editorial.  For ``Cinemax ReelLife'': Sheila Nevins, executive producer; Jacqueline Glover,associate producer.  Original music produced and composed by JohnO'Neill.  ``Angela's Smile'': lyrics by Dereen Griffin; music byMarian Thomas Griffin; sung by Marian Thomas Griffin; produced byTony Conniff. 
 NYT19980315. 0084  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 18:03:00 A DIRECTOR WHO DARES, AND TAKES THE HEAT NEW YORK _ The day after his production of ``Lohengrin''received a hostile reception at the Metropolitan Opera, RobertWilson, with commitments to keep, flew to Europe.  On the telephonefrom Geneva, the director expressed his surprise at the reaction,and tried to explain the reason behind it. 	   ``With Wagner, there is a society that's very closed,'' he said. ``They regard `Lohengrin' as 19th-century romanticism and want toguard it. '' He made it clear that he considered Wagnerians adistinct breed of classicists, rigid in their overprotectiveness. 	   Following that opening-night performance last week, the audienceenthusiastically applauded each of the leading singers and JamesLevine, who had conducted the orchestra.  Then Levine brought Wilsononstage, and there was a sudden, loud chorus of boos, echoingthrough the opera house.  Those who were applauding clapped harder,and there were a few lonely bravos. 
	   At a second round of bows, the response was the same.  For thethird round, Wilson brought his costume designer, FridaParmeggiani, forward with him (possibly to shield himself from thenaysayers). 	   In his long international career as an innovative director oftheater and opera, Wilson has always stirred the strongestreactions.  Especially in Europe, he is regarded as an icon ofexperimental theater, greeted with appreciative cries of``Bobwilson. '' He is certainly accustomed to criticism, in publicand in print, but the Met reception was excessive andextraordinarily rude.  It was as if he had committed a crime againstthe audience. 	   Wilson said that standing on the stage, struck by a wave ofderision, he thought, ``Wow!'' wondering what had provoked such avisceral response.  As he said: ``I didn't do anything so radical.  Ididn't ask the singers to sing upside down. 
Behind the singers, a shimmering Rothko-like rectangle changedcolor according to mood and, in Wilson's signature style, bars oflight, both horizontal and vertical, were substituted fortraditional woods and palaces. 	   Looking back at the beginning of the project, he said that hehad seen a photograph of a production of ``Hamlet'' in which theghost was an ordinary man sitting at a desk.  He considered thepossibility of staging ``Lohengrin'' in a similar realisticfashion. 	   Then, inspired by Wagner's own drawings, he began to see thestage space in abstract terms.  Searching for the architecture ofthat space, he decided to frame the opera with lighting and topresent it ``in a simple way, so you could concentrate on themusic,'' while knowing that ``the simplest line is the mostdifficult. '' At the same time, he retained Wagner's wing of a swanas a central motif. 	   Because of the work's mythic elements and outsize emotions, hesaid, it could easily be made to seem ridiculous: ``If I did theopera in an overly theatrical way, that would diminish the music. ''Remembering other productions, he added, ``Often the music isdiminished. '' At all costs, he wanted to help the Met singers feelmore comfortable on stage and to give their best performances. 
 ``One has to pay respect to the master, but onehas to be careful not to become a slave. '' He said that a classicshould not be rooted in a single time or place: ``This ancientstory must be timeless.  It must be present, too. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   Whether he is doing Wagner or Virgil Thomson, he oftenencounters resistance.  He remembered that when he did RichardStrauss' ``Salome'' at La Scala in 1987, his diva MontserratCaballe persuaded him to take a bow with her: ``They booed; theybravoed.  The booing was less. ''	   Wilson's only previous encounter with the Met was in 1986 with``Einstein on the Beach,'' an opera he created with Philip Glass. This was not part of the Met repertory but was an independentproduction paid for by Wilson. 
)On opening night there were a few walkouts, but those who stayedfor the nearly five-hour epic greeted it with a thunderous ovation. 	   With recent shows like ``The Black Rider'' and ``Time Rocker''at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, theatergoers attuned to his workarrive with Wilsonian expectations.  He said that in contrast to theopera public, theater and particularly dance audiences are able toapproach a production as a visual art, to look at it as they mightlook at a painting. 	   He said that people are accustomed to seeing Shakespeare in allpossible situations: updated, undated, deconstructed or even as amonologue, as in Wilson's own one-man performance of ``Hamlet. ''With equanimity, he has also directed imaginative interpretationsof plays by Ibsen, Buechner, Brecht and others. 	   Whether he is doing a new work or a classic, he makes boldartistic choices.  Occasionally he indulges in a kind ofbrinksmanship.  At one point in his version of ``The Magic Flute''several years ago at the Bastille Opera in Paris, he had a toyambulance zip across the stage, an antic Wilson touch.  His leadingsinger objected, giving him the choice of either her or the toycar. 
 Therewere no such anachronisms in his ``Lohengrin. ''	   With ``Lohengrin,'' the difficulty was in daring to direct aWagnerian classic at the Met.  It seemed apparent that no matterwhat Wilson did to Wagner would have been abhorrent to a largesegment of the audience.  After the premiere, the controversycontinued over the Internet. 	   In his brief trip to Europe, the director busily immersedhimself in two forthcoming projects: a production of Ibsen's ``LadyFrom the Sea'' (starring Dominique Sanda) in Milan, Italy, and aworkshop of a contemporary opera by Tania Leon in Geneva.  Heindicated that he was undiscouraged by the Met experience.  ``I gofrom one thing to the next, and I don't think about it,'' he said. Or rather, he was trying not to think about it.  Even to such aninternationally acclaimed artist like Wilson, such treatment mustbe hurtful. 
 Some years they love you; some years they hate you. Just do the work. '' But would he do more Wagner? ``Maybe I'll do`The Ring' now,'' he said, in full awareness that such anannouncement could cause a seismic shudder at the Met. 	   After returning to New York, he plans to attend the performancesof ``Lohengrin'' Tuesday and Saturday.  Asked if he would appearonstage with the cast at the final curtain, Wilson offered anemphatic ``No!'' NYT19980315. 0085  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 18:05:00 ADVERTISING: AFTER 32 YEARS, WELLS BDDP WILL CLOSE NEW YORK _ Time has run out for the besieged Wells BDDP, theonetime Madison Avenue powerhouse that had recently stumbled into astunning free fall as large clients left amid executive turmoil andownership changes. 	   GGT Group PLC, the parent of Wells, said on Friday that Wellswould be closed after 32 years, effective on May 13.  The shutdownwill affect 133 employees in New York, though at the start of theyear Wells had more than twice that number. 	   Efforts will be made to place employees with affiliates ofOmnicom Group, the giant agency company that agreed in late Januaryto acquire GGT. 
	   The shutdown will abruptly end Wells' battle for survival duringwhich billings fell to less than $200 million from a peak of almost$1 billion seven years ago.  Just since November, Wells has lostmore than $330 million in billings from clients like Bristol-MyersSquibb, Heineken USA Inc. , Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. , Procter &AMP;Gamble Co.  and Tag Heuer USA. 	   The closing also ends more than three decades of advertisingachievement that included such familiar campaigns as ``Quality isJob 1'' for Ford, ``I can't believe I ate the whole thing'' forAlka-Seltzer, ``Oh, the disadvantages'' for Benson &AMP; Hedgescigarettes and ``A totally organic experience'' for Clairol HerbalEssences shampoo. 	   ``Wells and the kind of work it did was one of the reasons I gotinto this business,'' said Steve Davis, who joined Wells only sixweeks ago as chairman and chief executive after the dismissal ofFrank Assumma. 	   ``To look at the agency's reel was to see the best and thebrightest,'' Davis said.  ``But it got to the point there was notenough critical mass to keep going. 
''	   The client roster of Wells and its affiliate, Moss/Dragoti, haddwindled to five accounts.  With the closing date posted, four ofthe five have started leaving for other agencies; the fifth, ChaseManhattan Corp. , had already placed its account in review. 	   Omnicom moved to acquire GGT after the loss of Wells' largestclient, Procter &AMP; Gamble _ with billings estimated at $125 million_ plunged GGT into crisis.  The hope had been widespread that Wellswould somehow remain in business, perhaps as a unit of an Omnicomagency like DDB Needham Worldwide or TBWA Chiat/Day. 	   But ``there was virtually no revenue left'' because of thesubstantial account losses, Wren said.  That sealed Wells' fate, ona Friday the 13th no less. 	   (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   ``I feel terrible about this,'' said Charlie Moss, the chairmanof Moss/Dragoti, who was one of the initial employees of Wells whenit opened as Wells, Rich, Greene in 1966.  ``It's very sad to see ithappen. 
''	   Two clients that had been handled by Moss/Dragoti are headed forDDB Needham in New York along with Moss and his longtime partner,Stan Dragoti. 	   One is Hertz Corp.  and the other is the History Channel, thecable television network owned by Walt Disney Co. , Hearst Corp.  andthe NBC unit of General Electric Co.  Combined billings areestimated at more than $40 million. 	   Ken Kaess, president of the DDB Needham U. S.  division, waspleased to land two additional clients unexpectedly but wasdismayed at the circumstances. 
 ``Wells is a terrific brand name. ''	   The Wells name had for years been burnished by Mary WellsLawrence, whose fierce devotion to clients and creative instinctsmade her an advertising legend.  Her fledgling agency grew quicklyfrom the 1960s into the 1970s, attracting blue-chip clients likeFord Motor Co. ; ITT Sheraton Corp. ; IBM; Miles Inc. , now part ofBayer; Philip Morris Cos. ; and P&AMP;G. 	   ``Mary created an environment and an attitude here,'' Davissaid, ``and underpinned it with great people who delivered on thatpromise.  Wells could always be depended on for something new anddifferent. 
 Lawrence withdrew from active involvement, andfinancial problems began to impede Wells' performance.  Wells thensuffered through waves of account losses and management tumult aswell as another change in ownership when BDDP was acquired lastyear by GGT. 	   For instance, one six-month period in 1995 brought the suddendepartures from Wells of the chairman and chief executive, thepresident and the chief financial officer. 	   ``It was a big roller coaster,'' said Linda Kaplan Thaler, whoworked at Wells in a top creative post from 1994 to 1997.  ``I wenton a maternity leave, and when I came back, nobody was there. 	   ``It was an unfortunate sequence of happenstances,'' she added. ``No one person is responsible; everyone there had the best ofintentions. ''	   Kaplan Thaler Group in New York, an advertising and productioncompany that Ms.  Kaplan Thaler opened after leaving Wells, is beingawarded the account of another Wells client, Toys ``R'' Us, withbillings estimated at $30 million to $40 million. 
 Kaplan Thalerhad worked for Toys ``R'' Us at Wells and at the J.  Walter ThompsonNew York unit of WPP Group, where she wrote the Toys ``R'' Usjingle. 	   Ms.  Kaplan Thaler had been bound by a noncompetition agreementwith Wells that expires in July.  But the closing led Wells to waivethe stricture so the account could move now. 	   The fourth Wells account moving to another agency is thepackaged paper-products division of Georgia-Pacific Corp. , whicharrived at Wells only last fall.  Like Hertz and the HistoryChannel, it is also leaving for an Omnicom-owned agency, the BBDOSouth unit of BBDO Worldwide. 	   BBDO South in Atlanta, which handles corporate advertising forGeorgia-Pacific, will assume additional duties for brands likeAngel Soft toilet tissue and Sparkle paper towels, said Ken Haldin,a spokesman for Georgia-Pacific in Atlanta. 
	   Omnicom anticipates completing the acquisition of GGT in thenext two weeks, Wren said, adding that he planned to sponsor a``three-day job fair to try to place as many Wells employees aspossible'' at Omnicom agencies and subsidiaries. 	   ``The employees are the innocent victims of all these events,''he added. 	   Davis, who said he would consider his next move after Wellsclosed, agreed with Wren. 	   ``I told the staff this didn't have anything to do with them,''he said, referring to his remarks at a meeting at the Wells officeon Friday afternoon.  ``I've never seen such passion and convictionin the face of having to read about the agency in the papers everyday. '' NYT19980315. 0086  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 18:06:00 `THE GIFTS OF THE JEWS': DESERT NOMADS CHANGED THE WORLD WITH THE	   ``To most readers today, the Bible is a confusing hodgepodge;and those who take up the daunting task of reading it from cover tocover seldom maintain their resolve beyond a book or two. '' Sowrites Thomas Cahill in his captivating new book, ``The Gifts ofthe Jews,'' a sequel to the author's best-selling ``How the IrishSaved Civilization'' and the second book in his projectedseven-volume ``Hinges of History'' series, about ``the greatgift-givers'' who shaped Western civilization. 	   ``Though the Bible is full of literature's two great themes,love and death (as well as its exciting caricatures, sex andviolence),'' Cahill continues, ``it is also full of tedious ritualprescriptions and interminable battles. 
''	   So he decodes it for us, the Hebrew Bible, that is, comprisingTorah (or Teaching), Neviim (or Prophets) and Ketuvim (orWritings).  The former director of religious publishing atDoubleday, Cahill skips over the boring parts or summarizes theirimplications; he skirts much scholarly controversy; he simplifies``complex questions so that the line of my argument may appearclearly;'' he writes in an easy, relaxed vernacular. 	   And he enjoys himself.  He laughs at the pharaoh who asks,``Ma-zot?'' (``What's this?''), ``an almost comic exclamation offrustration often heard in modern Israel,'' when he learns thatSarah (in Genesis) is actually not Abraham's sister but his wife. 	   He delights in the accessibility of David's character: ``He isthe captain of the football team, the supersalesman, the engagingentertainer, the charismatic politician.  We know the man. '' Hequotes in full the beautiful King James Version of the 23rd Psalm,even though much of the English-speaking world probably knows it byheart. 	   So the reader enjoys himself, too, happy to have gaps filled in,amused to read the author's snappy summaries of obscureoccurrences, edified by his straightforward interpretations ofmuch-debated episodes. 	   But, as his subtitle conveys, ``How a Tribe of Desert NomadsChange the Way Everyone Thinks and Feels,'' Cahill has a muchlarger purpose here than simply to entertain. 
''	   So in his reading of the Hebrew Bible he not only traces thedevelopment of the Hebrew God from the figure who heavy-handedlycalled for the near-sacrifice of Isaac because ``He had tojump-start this new religion, and He didn't always have the bestmaterial to work with,'' to what the King James calls the ``still,small voice'' that the Prophet Elijah heard.  Cahill also contraststhis development with what existed before Abraham's departure forCanaan, namely what the author describes as the static outlook ofthe Mesopotamian kingdom of Sumer around 2000 B. C. , which conceivedof time as a turning wheel without beginning or end. 	   This section on Sumer is the most speculative in Cahill's book. By offering up ``Gilgamesh'' as an epic without much dramaticdevelopment, and by imagining an eerie Moon-cult ritual in which apriestess mounts an adolescent boy, he is more or less asking us totake his word (and that of the pre-eminent modern scholar ofreligion, Mircea Eliade) that the Sumerians lacked any sense ofhistory. 	   But the timeless atmosphere he evokes certainly contrastsvividly with the sharpness of the Hebrew imperative ``lekh-lekha''(``Go forth'') and the phrase ``wayyelekh Avram'' (``Abrahamwent''), which Cahill calls ``two of the boldest words in all ofliterature. '' And what matters, after all, are the events afterAbraham's departure. 	   Does the thesis of ``The Gifts of the Jews'' stand up,persuading us that the Israelites changed history? As readers of``How the Irish Saved Civilization'' will recall, Cahill is fond ofhyperbole. 
''	   Then, too, he seems to be chiding anti-Semites, of whom hewrites: ``The hatred of Christians for Jews may have its ultimatesource in hatred of God, a hatred that the hater must carefullykeep himself from knowing about. ''	   Yet ``The Gifts of the Jews'' is finally persuasive as well asentertaining.  ``Where are the Sumerians, the Babylonians, theAssyrians today?'' he asks, remarking on Jewish identity and the``unique miracle of cultural survival. ''	   ``The Jews gave us the Outside and the Inside _ our outlook andour inner life,'' he concludes.  ``We dream Jewish dreams and hopeJewish hopes.  Most of our best words, in fact _ new, adventure,surprise; unique, individual, person, vocation; time, history,future; freedom, progress, spirit; faith, hope, justice _ are giftsof the Jews. ''	   And so is Cahill's book a gift. 	   PUBLICATION NOTES:	   `THE GIFTS OF THE JEWS'	   How a Tribe of Desert Nomads Changed the Way Everyone Thinks andFeels	   By Thomas Cahill	   Maps.  291 pages. 
 Talese/Doubleday.  $23. 50.  NYT19980315. 0087  NEWS STORY  03/15/1998 18:07:00 MUSICIANS ON BROADWAY TO VOTE ON A CONTRACT NEW YORK _ Officials of the union representing Broadway'smusicians are to meet with negotiators for producers and theaterowners Tuesday to continue working out the final language of atentative agreement on a new five-year contract.  The agreementcould be put to a vote of the members as early as next week, theofficials said. 	   Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians called off aplanned strike vote on Saturday when the tentative agreement wasreached.  The contract between the local and the League of AmericanProducers and Theater Owners, which represents 36 of Broadway's 38theaters, had expired on March 8, and last Tuesday the local'sexecutive board had approved the strike vote. 	   The tentative agreement calls for a wage increase of more than21 percent over the life of the contract, said Judy West, aspokeswoman for the local, and Jed Bernstein, the league'sexecutive director. 
. 
 NYT19980403. 0453  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:01:00 CREDIT WARNING BY MOODY'S ON JAPANESE BONDS TOKYO _ Borrowers in Japan, including even the healthiestcorporations, faced a new challenge on Friday as Moody's InvestorsService provided a pessimistic outlook on the nation's pristinecredit rating. 	   The exchange rate of Japan's currency, the yen, tumbled to asix-and-a-half-year low, and the stock and bond markets fell on thedecision by the American-based ratings agency to change its view onJapan _ whose government debt has been rated triple-A _ from``stable'' to ``negative. ''	   Moody's did not change any existing bond ratings, but thenegative outlook may lead to a formal review in 18 months to twoyears. 	   A lowered rating could raise borrowing costs for all Japanese,from consumers to large corporations, even those with impeccablecredit.  And such a move could further weaken Japanese banks, whichalready pay more to borrow because they hold in excess of $600billion in bad loans. 	   The step by Moody's was a surprise because even with Japan'seconomic problems, it is still the world's largest creditor nationand there is little doubt about its ability to repay debts.  But theannouncement showed that Moody's _ one of the world's big creditraters, along with Standard &AMP; Poor's and Duff &AMP; Phelps _ wasbeginning to rethink Japan's long-term prospects. 	   In trading here Friday the dollar surged to 135. 42 yen, thehighest since September 1991, before recovering a little. 
78.  Bond prices also declined,pushing the yield on the key 10-year Japanese government bond to1. 685 percent, a six-week high.  Bond prices and yields move inopposite directions	   ``The world doesn't trust Japan anymore, even though Japan haslots of money,'' commented Xinyi Lu of Paribas Capital Markets Ltd.  Moody's lowered its rating of the government's yen-denominateddebt, typically the least risky securities.  Moreover, it darkenedits outlook on Japan's sovereign ceiling, which is effectively thegovernment's ability to repay foreign-currency obligations.  NoJapanese borrower can have a higher rating than the government, soif the sovereign ceiling's rating is in time actually lowered, thatwould hurt triple-A rated companies like Toyota or the TokyoElectric Power Company. 	   Moody's said the change reflected ``uncertainty about theability of the authorities to achieve a policy consensus'' to helpthe economy. 	   It added that persistent weakness in the financial industry hadmade Japan more vulnerable, and it questioned whether officialefforts to stimulate the economy would work. 
''	   The Moody's announcement was the finale in a weak ofparticularly bad economic news in Japan.  A government attempt tobuoy the stock market by purchasing shares had only fleetingeffects.  A central bank quarterly survey of business sentiment, theTankan, showed some of the worst pessimism in 20 years.  And NorioOhga, chairman of the Sony Corporation, one of the strongestJapanese companies, said the economy was verging on collapse.  OnFriday, the Economic Planning Agency said the economy had stagnatedfor the last two months.  NYT19980403. 0455  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:02:00 NEW DRUG FOR IMPOTENCE RAISES HOPE FOR ITS USE BY WOMEN, TOO	   The buzz over the new impotence drug, Viagra, has prompted manywomen and researchers to wonder whether it could improve the sexlives of women if they took it as well.  And, in the process, it isgenerating new interest in sex research in general and women'ssexual problems in particular. 	   For decades, the field of sex research has been a scientificbackwater, researchers acknowledge. 
	   Even Viagra was discovered by accident.  Pfizer, its maker, waslooking for a drug to relieve the chest pain of heart disease.  Thecompound, sildenafil citrate in pill form, did not work asintended, but it had an unexpected side effect: some men takingViagra found that it resulted in prolonged or enhanced erections. 	   When Pfizer scientists decided to investigate its usefulness asan impotence remedy, they had to learn about the biochemistry andneurobiology of erections.  They also had to pay for developing asurvey to determine whether erections, sexual performance andsexual desire improved and, if so, by how much. 	   Now many doctors want to know whether Viagra works on women,since the clitoris is the female version of the penis and thusbecomes engorged with blood during sexual arousal.  But how, theyask, should they measure arousal in women, especially sincerelatively little is known about sexual function and dysfunctionamong women?	   Until researchers solve that problem, Pfizer's plans to test theeffects of Viagra on women cannot begin.  In the meantime,researchers say, women have been calling them and asking about thepill. 	   But even asking about whether Viagra works for women has meantstarting the sort of sex research that has been stymied, expertssaid. 
 Raymond Rosen, a sex researcher and professorof psychiatry at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in NewBrunswick, N. J. 	   While some welcome the change, others ask how money andattention from drug companies will alter a field that has focusedas much on feelings and relationships as it has on physiology andmechanics. 	   With drug company money, ``the studies have been so mechanical _is it hard? how wide is it? how big is it? how many seconds does itlast?'' said Dr.  Leonore Tiefer, a sex researcher and clinicalprofessor of psychiatry at New York Medical Center. 	   But ``I think of an erection as a means to an end,'' Tiefersaid, ``something suitable to a couple rather than something youmeasure in the guy in the lab. ''	   Some researchers wonder whether it will be good or bad forrelationships if a new generation of drugs enhances sexualfunctioning for people who have been getting along fine withless-than-peak performance. 	   ``Think of this like winning the sexual lottery,'' said Dr. Pepper Schwartz, a sociology professor at the University ofWashington. 
 But that is not always true. ''	   Yet some say that the anticipated renaissance for sex researchis long overdue, particularly for women. 	   ``We can argue that as a society sexual functioning shouldn'thave the image it has,'' said Rosen.  But sexual dysfunction ``forthe people involved, it can be devastating,'' he said. 	   If anything, he added, sexual problems are more common in womenthan in men and, as in men, they are more common as people getolder.  For women, a major issue is lack of desire.  Yet Rosen saidmuch remained unknown:	   ``What is the relationship between lack of desire and measuresof sexual performance _ lubrication and arousal? Is it that womenlose desire and then develop arousal difficulties or is it theother way around?''	   Women may complain of a lack of desire because it is moreacceptable for them to say that than to say they have difficultybecoming aroused, Dr.  Rosen said. 	   A 55-year-old nurse at the University of Maryland said she couldnot decide whether her problem was lack of desire or lack of anability to become aroused. 
 But ``when you are with your partner for along time,'' she added, ``a certain boredom sets in. '' So maybeViagra ``could be the answer to that,'' she said. 	   The nurse said she, and virtually every woman she knew, wouldlike to try Viagra. 	   ``I think everyone wonders if it could be better,'' she said. 	   At least one researcher, Dr.  Irwin Goldstein, a professor ofurology at the Boston University School of Medicine, said hisresearch indicated that the problem for middle-aged women was thesame as it was for middle-aged men: a paucity of blood flowing tothe sex organs.  And if Goldstein is correct, it makes at leasttheoretical sense that Viagra be helpful for women. 	   It was Goldstein whose survey of Massachusetts men indicatedthat about half of all men aged 40 to 70 had difficulties obtainingor maintaining erections.  He also discovered that the problem wasmost common among men with conditions that can lead to vascularproblems that can lead to diminished flow in blood vessels, likediabetes. 
	   To get an idea of how common sexual problems are in women,Goldstein surveyed 300 women whose partners had consulted him aboutimpotency. 	   Defining sexual dysfunction as discomfort during sexualintercourse, dryness, increased time for arousal, diminishedability to reach orgasm, or diminished clitoral sensation,Goldstein found that 58 percent of the women were affected.  And, aslike men, the women were more likely to have sexual difficulties ifthey were older and if they had medical conditions relating tovascular problems. 	   Goldstein and Dr.  Jennifer Berman, a urologist at the Universityof Maryland in Baltimore, also examined the blood vessels thatsupplied the clitorises of cadavers and those of women undergoingX-ray examinations of the arteries for vascular disease.  They foundthat just as disease and aging cause blood vessels to narrow inother parts of the body, the sexual organs were similarly affected,Goldstein said. 	   ``The whole field changes now,'' he said. 	   Sexual dysfunction, Goldstein said, is no longer mostly apsychosomatic complaint, it is not something to be resolved onlythrough years of therapy, and it is not a problem for a urologistalone. 	   Instead, he said, sexual dysfunction ``is in essence a vasculardisease. 
'' NYT19980403. 0456  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:02:00 BUOYANT CLINTON TAKES ON GOP SENATORS, BIG TOBACCO WASHINGTON _ Eager to shift the spotlight from Paula Jones backto the business of government, President Clinton lambasted theRepublican Senate budget proposal on Friday and warned tobaccocompanies to go along with a proposed settlement. 	   Tired but buoyant in his first day back at the Oval Office after12 days in Africa, Clinton immediately assembled his economic teamin the White House Rose Garden this morning and signaled anelection-year showdown with congressional Republicans over thebudget for the 1999 fiscal year.  While clearly emboldened by afederal judge's dismissal on Wednesday of Mrs.  Jones' sexualmisconduct lawsuit, the president vowed not to be distracted bysuch matters, saying, ``I am going on with my business. ''	   Instead, Clinton castigated Senate Republicans for approving a$1. 73 trillion spending plan on Thursday night that calls formodest tax cuts and excludes virtually all of the president'sproposals for new spending.  And he scolded members of the House forpassing a six-year, $217 billion transportation bill packed withprojects for almost every congressional district. 	   ``I am very concerned that the budget plan now working its waythrough the Senate will squeeze out critical investments ineducation and children,'' Clinton said. 
''	   Sen.  Trent Lott, R-Miss. , the majority leader, dismissed thepresident's comments, asserting: ``We have our priorities, he hashis priorities.  Education is a high priority for us. ''	   Asserting that it was Republicans, not Clinton, who sought moremoney for education training, Lott said, ``He needs to check hisfigures before he starts complaining. ''	   Moving from one domestic priority to another, the presidentcalled on tobacco companies to go along with the bill that wasapproved this week by the Senate Commerce Committee, even though itwas tougher on the companies than the proposed settlement theyagreed to last summer. 	   ``I am determined to seize this historic opportunity to passbipartisan legislation to protect our children from the dangers oftobacco,'' he said.  ``This Congress can be the Congress that savesmillions of children's lives. ''	   The cigarette companies, Clinton said, needed to ``reverse therecord of the past, to try to put this unforgivable chapter behindthem. 
 ``I'm not saying it'simpossible,'' the senator said.  ``But I think that the best time todo it would be before we go out for the Memorial Day recess. ''	   Clinton was unusually jaunty at his White House homecomingevent.  Trying to put the best face on figures showing a slight risein unemployment, which were made public shortly before his RoseGarden appearance, he said, ``While there will be ups and downs,our economy continues to be one of the strongest in history. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) White House officials said Friday's appearance was the preludeto a number of events next week _ on issues ranging from SocialSecurity to crime to school construction _ to showcase thepresident's domestic agenda and turn the focus from allegationsabout sex and cover-up at the White House. 	   ``The American people want us to use this sunlit moment not tosit back and enjoy, but to act,'' Clinton said firmly.  ``We werehired by the American people to act. ''	   Questioned about Monica Lewinsky, the former White House internaccused of having a relationship with Clinton, he said: ``I am notgoing to comment on that. 
''	   The president was in such high spirits that he teased VicePresident Al Gore, who turned 50 while Clinton was in Africa.  ``Ihope all of you noticed the increased gravity and maturity of hisaura,'' Clinton said.  ``I personally am greatly relieved.  Not longbefore he turned 50, as I told him when I called him, an elderlylady came up to me and said, `I think you and that young man aredoing such a good job. ' And it's nice to have a middle-aged teamnow at the White House. ''	   Soon after the event, the president took an early slide and wentgolfing with his wife's brothers, Hugh and Tony Rodham.  NYT19980403. 0458  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:04:00 STRONG GM SALES HELP SLOW DECLINE FOR INDUSTRY DETROIT _ Auto sales fell 1. 7 percent last month, althoughstrong results from a rebate-fueled sales drive by General MotorsCorp. 
	   GM said Friday that its sales rose 3. 7 percent in March,compared with the 1997 period, helping pull up the results for theindustry as a whole.  Ford Motor Co.  said Friday that its sales fell2. 6 percent. 	   GM's top sales and marketing executive also signaled a change inmanagement's view on offering the rebates and other incentives thatcustomers love but investors dread.  The company, which had watchedits market share dwindle as it tried to avoid offering costlydiscounts, acknowledged a need to stabilize its share of the carand truck market. 	   ``There is no one in General Motors who doesn't understand andbelieve that market share is important, and that's the way we'regoing to manage the business going forward,'' said Ronald L. Zarrella, a GM vice president in charge of sales, service andmarketing. 
''	   Zarrella insisted GM would pay for the expensive rebates andother incentives by cutting costs elsewhere, rather than by turningin lower-than-expected profits.  ``We are going to be competitivegoing forward, and we think we can cut costs enough to make ourprofitability objectives and to make our market share objectives,''Zarrella said. 	   Wall Street was untroubled by the reversal.  ``It is a shift,''Wendy Beale Needham, an auto analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin &AMP;Jenrette, said.  ``It is only acknowledging the realities of themarketplace _ that if everyone else is using incentives, you can'tsell without incentives. '' However, she said GM should be able tooffer more discounts without unduly crimping profits because itcould cut costs faster than it would need to increase incentives. 	   The company's strategy change came after a dismal showing inFebruary, when sales were so weak that GM's market share skidded to28. 7 percent, well below the 30 percent level considered animportant psychological barrier.  Last month, GM fought back with anonslaught of rebates and discounts on loans and leases, and bystepping up its television advertising. 
 March sales rose 3. 7 percent over all, compared withthe period a year earlier, with car sales falling 1. 9 percent andsales of sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks rising11. 0 percent.  The company's market share jumped to 33 percent _well above the 31. 3 percent share for all of last year, and farbetter than February's dismal showing. 	   For the auto industry as a whole, the seasonally adjusted annualrate of sales reached a healthy 15. 1 million in March, below therobust 15. 5 million annual rate during the period a year earlierbut slightly better than the 15 million annual rate in February. 
7 percent sales drop industrywide.  ``The decline is only becausethe year-ago number was so high,'' David Bradley, an auto analystat J. P.  Morgan Securities Inc. , said.  ``We've fallen down to normalselling rates, but still robust and healthy rates. ''	   Ford said its 2. 6 percent sales decline was a result of forgonesales from five cars and trucks the company discontinued becausethey were unprofitable.  Ford's car sales fell 5. 
 Ford also announcedFriday that it would extend existing incentives on 1998 modelsthrough July 2 and on leftover 1997 models through June 2. 	   Ford executives were optimistic about the industry's outlook. ``The U. S.  industry is on pace to record its fifth consecutive yearof sales in the 15 to 15. 5 million range,'' Robert L.  Rewey, Ford'sgroup vice president for marketing, sales and service, said. 	   Ford's Jaguar unit said that its sales rose 19. 9 percent. 
 Daimler-Benz AG's Mercedes sales jumped 69. 1 percent,helped by strong sales of a new sport utility vehicle.  VolkswagenAG's sales jumped 43. 7 percent in March as the New Beetle reachedshowrooms.  The Suzuki Motor Corp.  sales rose 72. 6 percent.  Volvosales rose 28. 6 percent. 
1percent.  BMW sales rose 5. 7 percent. 	   Others fared worse.  Porsche AG sales dropped 6 percent and IsuzuMotors Ltd.  sales fell 1. 5 percent.  The Chrysler Corp.  saidWednesday that its sales fell 1. 
 NYT19980403. 0459  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:05:00  Michael W.  McCarthy, a former chairman of Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. ,who helped expand that brokerage firm into a global enterprise,died April 1 at his home in Indian Wells, Calif.  McCarthy, 94, also served for a time as a governor of both theNew York and American Stock Exchanges. 	   He worked his way up from a bookkeeper in an Oakland, Calif. ,grocery business to become Merrill Lynch's president in 1959 andthen chairman of the company two years later, presiding over whatwas the biggest American brokerage firm in a period of rapiddomestic and foreign expansion. 	   Merrill, for example, set up an office in Tokyo in 1961, thefirst American securities firm to do so.  Between 1959 and 1964, thefirm also opened 21 new offices in the United States, creating anetwork of 159 offices across the country. 
 Merrill itselfconverted from a partnership to become a public company in 1959. ``We sincerely believe public ownership would increase andstabilize the capital positions of member firms,'' McCarthy said atthe time.  Since then, most big Wall Street firms, except Goldman,Sachs &AMP; Co. , have converted from private partnerships to publicownership. 	   As a governor of the New York Stock Exchange from 1960 to 1963,McCarthy pressed the Big Board to give the nation's stockholders agreater voice in the exchange's affairs.  In August 1963, he urgedit to ``get away from the onus of a private club. ''	   David Komansky, Merrill's current chairman and chief executive,said in a statement Thursday that McCarthy ``was a visionaryleader, overseeing expansion in the U. S.  and abroad. 
''	   McCarthy was born in Belle Plaine, Minn. , the youngest of sixchildren.  After graduating from high school in Beach, N. D. , in1924, he went to California, where he found a $100-a-month job atthe Mutual Stores Grocery chain in Oakland. 	   Four years later, Safeway Stores acquired Mutual in atransaction financed by Merrill Lynch.  Charles Merrill, thebrokerage firm's founder, got to know McCarthy as a result of thattransaction and was impressed by his bookkeeping skills. 	   In 1940, Mr.  Merrill invited McCarthy to join Merrill Lynch tohelp organize its back office, the term brokerage firms apply tothe administration and systems needed to support stock and bondtrading. 
	   A key architect of Merrill Lynch's conversion to publicownership two years later, McCarthy became the company's presidentin 1959 and succeeded Winthrop Smith as chairman in April 1961.  Heretired as chairman in 1966, and as chairman of the firm'sexecutive committee in 1968, settling in Indian Wells. 	   After retirement, he was active in civic affairs, becoming afounding trustee of the Eisenhower Medical Center. 	   McCarthy was a governor of the American Stock Exchange from 1950to 1956 and a governor of the Association of Stock Exchange firmsfrom 1955 to 1961. 	   He is survived by a son, Patrick M.  McCarthy of Indian Wells;two grandsons; a granddaughter, and a great-grandson.  McCarthy'swife, Margaret Grundy McCarthy, died in 1997.  NYT19980403. 0460  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:10:00 CLINTON SAYS JAPAN MUST CHANGE ECONOMIC POLICY WASHINGTON _ President Clinton warned in unusually explicitterms Friday that Japan must change course if it hopes to pull itseconomy out of a long-running decline that has worsened markedly inrecent weeks. 
	   While Clinton issued his warning to Japan in response to aquestion at a news conference, he was clearly ready to send astrong message, saying, ``You simply can't stay with a strategythat is clearly not appropriate to the times and expect it to getthe results that are needed for the country. ''	   For months U. S.  officials have become increasingly specificabout what they believe Japan must do, advocating huge tax cuts andold-fashioned deficit spending to spur an economy that many expertssay could shrink by 2 percent this year. 	   The president was careful to praise Japan's embattled primeminister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, as ``an able man,'' but he said therewas clearly ``an ongoing struggle'' with an entrenched bureaucracy. 	   His comments stepped up the recent public pressure from TreasurySecretary Robert Rubin and leaders from several of the world'sbiggest economic powers, who have said repeatedly that Japan'seconomic decline and its inability to absorb imports fromneighboring countries threaten to undermine Asia's fragilerecovery. 	   U. S.  officials have a more specific concern: the risk that acollapse of more major Japanese banks and securities dealers couldimperil Wall Street, just as the Dow Jones Industrial Averagecrossed 9,000 for the first time. 
 But U. S.  companies arealready reporting that their exports to Asia are droppingdrastically, and a collapse in Japan, many say, could start a newround of economic contagion that could reach further than thecrises in Southeast Asia and South Korea. 	   Administration officials made clear that Clinton's commentsFriday had been carefully planned. 	   ``He's been building to this for a long time,'' one seniorofficial said.  ``We're looking at an economic actor, the world'ssecond-largest economy, whose decisions affect the globe, and thereis a growing sense that they are not up to the task, that they donot understand the gravity of the situation for Japan and the restof the world.  There is simply a loss of confidence. ''	   On Thursday the chairman of Sony Corp. , Norio Ohga, a man notgiven to alarmist statements, warned that Japan's economy ``is onthe verge of collapsing. 
 ``Ifyou look at what Hoover was saying at the start of the GreatDepression and what Hashimoto is saying at the moment, they arevery similar,'' Ohga warned. 	   (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   But the sharp reactions in Japan's stock and currency marketsseem to have been driven by two different events.  The first was theend of the Japanese fiscal year on Tuesday.  For days before thatdeadline, the Japanese government was investing heavily in thecountry's stock market, trying to boost the price of stocks held byJapan's banks, which are burdened with hundreds of billions ofdollars of bad debts. 	   The goal was to make year-end balance sheets appear far sounderthan they really were, so banks would meet internationalrequirements for lending around the world.  But the stock pricesnever rose as far as Japanese officials had hoped, and as soon asthe deadline passed, prices dropped steeply. 	   The second alarm came from Moody's Investors Service, one of theworld's leading financial rating agencies, which issued an unusualwarning about Japan on Friday. 	   While Moody's did not drop the Japanese government's triple-Arating, the highest it grants to any country, it altered itsoutlook to ``negative. '' Although there is virtually no fear thatJapan could default on its government debt _ the country hashundreds of billions of dollars in reserves _ the warning madeinvestors who fear rising bankruptcies extremely skittish. 
 A year ago, whenHashimoto visited the White House, he made a detailed economicpresentation to Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and top economicofficials, arguing that a 3 percent tax increase that Japan wasimposing would not send the economy into a tailspin. 	   He was wrong.  In November, Hashimoto admitted that the taxincrease, which had been pressed by bureaucrats in Japan's FinanceMinistry, had been a major mistake.  But he has not moved to repealthe tax, and so far the economic programs he has announced to spurthe economy have been a murky mixture of new and previouslyannounced ones. 	   Japan's ambassador to Washington, Kunihiko Saito, said Fridaythat he had no problem with the mounting pressure from Clinton. 	   ``We Japanese now realize that the old system that worked in thepast doesn't work anymore,'' he said Friday.  ``We have to reformourselves, and change our system. '' But, he added, ``Sometimespublic statements can be counterproductive, and we have been askingU. S. 
'' NYT19980403. 0465  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:24:00 TREASURY PRICES SURGE NEW YORK _ Treasury securities rallied sharply on Friday on newsof the surprising drop in employment last month. 	   ``The jobs report is likely to convert many Asian-slowdowndisbelievers into ardent supporters of this view and ignite freshhope that the central bank is not likely to even think of raisingrates any time soon,'' said Anthony Chan, managing director andchief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corp. , inColumbus, Ohio. 	   Indeed, Chan said, Fed policy makers are now likely ``to opendebate on when, not if, they should consider lowering short-termrates. ''	   The price of the 30-year bond rose 23/32, to 104 23/32.  Thebond's yield, which moves in the the opposite direction from theprice, dropped to 5. 79 percent, from 5. 84 percent on Thursday _ thelowest since 5. 
 17. 	   Jack Ablin, president of Barnett Capital Advisors Inc. , inJacksonville, Fla. , said that market concerns heading into thesecond quarter had been over the Asian crisis and wage pressures. ``The issue the market needed to grapple with was whether the Asiancrisis was going to be enough to help offset the wage and inflationpressures we were facing,'' he said.  ``To date, while the Asiasituation is still there, the employment numbers today went a longway to alleviate those concerns. ''	   Elsewhere in the market, in when-issued trading on Friday aheadof next week's $8-billion auction of 30-year inflation-indexedbonds on Wednesday, the bonds were being offered at a price toyield 3. 64 percent, down 3 basis points from the previous day.  Abasis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. 
0468  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:34:00 UTAH TOWN DIVIDED BY MEMORIES OF LYNCHING PRICE, Utah _ Down by the Price River, the bare, twisted limbsof a dried-out cottonwood are enough to make a grown man shudder. 	   ``It's still there, scary and ominous as ever,'' the Rev.  FranceDavis, pastor of Salt Lake City's largest black church, said aftervisiting the old tree, site of what historians say was the lastlynching of a black man in the American West. 	   On Saturday, the 30th anniversary of the assassination of theRev.  Dr.  Martin Luther King Jr. , Davis and other religious leaders,most of them white, will gather at the cemetery here to dedicate agravestone of gray Georgia granite inscribed: ``Robert Marshall. Lynched June 18, 1925.  A Victim of Intolerance. 
''	   But on the eve of that gathering, for what the organizers call aceremony of ``reconciliation and forgiveness,'' this close-knitcoal mining town in Utah's desert canyonlands is being torn apartby the memories that the occasion was intended to evoke. 	   ``A man came out of the store with a rope, and my father asked,`What's going on?''' recalled C.  Matthew Gilmour, 88, a whitenative of Price who planned the ceremony from his home in Salt LakeCity.  ``The man said, `They've caught him _ we've got a necktieparty. ' That was the phrase that stuck in my mind all these years:`a necktie party. '	   ``The same racism that shot Martin Luther King in Memphis is thesame prejudice that strung up Marshall in Price,'' Gilmour, aretired lawyer, said of the all-white mob that lynched an itinerantblack miner suspected of murdering a coal company guard. 	   Not so, says Kevin Ashby, publisher of the local newspaper, TheSun Advocate, who calls the reconciliation day ``a slap in the faceto the community'' and says the organizers are trying ``to make amartyr out of a murderer. ''	   On Tuesday, Ashby, who like other critics does not deny thelynching itself, published a long editorial denouncing thereconciliation day as an imported hodgepodge of ``correct politicalthinking, rewriting of history and victim culture. ''	   ``On Wednesday,'' he said, ``the calls started coming in. 
 All the callers were in support'' of theeditorial. 	   On Thursday afternoon, one of those callers sat in her livingroom, the blinds drawn and a vase of roses from her 80th birthdaysitting forgotten on a shelf.  Near tears, she asked that she not beidentified by name. 	   ``Why, why resurrect this thing?'' asked the woman, who recallsvisiting the jail where her father, the town marshal, was one of 11men briefly held for the lynching.  ``Why attack the second andthird generation?''	   As a result of the controversy brought on by plans for thegathering, she said, ``I can't go shopping, I can't go to thebeauty shop _ people always ask me about it. ''	   Gilmour says it was President Clinton's call for a nationaldialogue on race that inspired him and the other organizers to planceremonies at the resting place of a lynching victim who for 73years has lain in an unmarked grave. 	   But with the reconciliation day organized largely by outsidersfrom Salt Lake City, much of Price has retreated.  Isolated bygeography, Carbon County, with only 20,000 residents, has long feltalienated from Salt Lake City, 120 miles to the northwest. Unionized, industrial, Democratic and a religious and ethnic mix,the county is an anomaly in a state that is overwhelminglyanti-union, Republican and Mormon. 
Eldon Dorman, an 88-year-old retired doctor, echoing a sentimentheard around town.  ``This was not a racist thing at all.  IfMarshall had been an Italian or a Greek, he would have gotten thesame thing. ''	   But events of the period suggest the contrary.  For instance, ina mining strike here three years before the lynching of Marshall,workers shot and killed two coal company guards.  Three Greekimmigrant miners were arrested, tried and convicted.  One wassentenced to 20 years in prison, the others to life.  Strongcommunity, church and labor support for them applied the brake toany inclination toward vigilantism. 	   In contrast, Marshall, hanged amid a bitter later strike, wasone of only 100 or so blacks in the entire county. 
	   As the ceremony's critics point out, Marshall had a criminalrecord and, by the account of historians, did shoot the guard, fivetimes. 	   But ``whether he was guilty or not is irrelevant,'' said LarryGerlach, a University of Utah history professor who wrote ``BlazingCrosses in Zion: The Ku Klux Klan in Utah'' (Utah State UniversityPress, 1982).  ``Justice was subverted. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   That summer the Ku Klux Klan started organizing here, makingtargets of Italian and Greek immigrants, whom the Klan blamed forthe 1922 strike.  Then, with coal prices slumping in the spring of1925, two coal companies here tried to slash miners' wages,bringing on the second strike.  The mean mood boiled over with theshooting of another company guard and the capture and lynching ofMarshall. 	   As many as 1,000 people gathered for the hanging, some withpicnic lunches.  ``You would have seen your neighbors, yourfriends'' and ``folks prominent in church and social circles,'' ThePrice Sun reported the next day. 
 Bracken Lee, a local insurance agent wholater became Price's mayor and Utah's governor.  ``I'd say therewere enough ropes there to hang 20 people,'' he told an interviewerin 1977. 	   The authorities detained 11 men, mostly Klansmen who wereemployees of one of the struck concerns, the Utah Fuel Co.  Duringan inquiry by a grand jury that heard 124 witnesses, the jailed menwere feted by townspeople with ice cream and home-cooked meals. 	   No one identified any member of the mob, and the 11 suspectswere freed.  Gerlach recalls that in interviews he conducted herehalf a century after the lynching, ``I had a number of people tellme, `Yeah, I lied''' to the grand jury. 	   ``The response was always the same,'' Gerlach said.  ```Weweren't going to do anything to take down members of ourcommunity. '''  NYT19980403. 
	   The bank, called the Swiss National Bank, also disputed theAmerican courts' jurisdiction. 	   The suit alleges that the bank ``collaborated with Nazi Germanyin the knowing receipt of looted assets,'' including gold, bonds,and securities, said Michael Hausfeld, a Washington lawyerrepresenting Holocaust victims and heirs. 	   He said in a telephone interview on Friday that the suit hadbeen prepared but not yet filed and did not specify an amount forrestitution.  He said that despite the tough stand taken by theSwiss National Bank, preparations for the suit would continue, butthat he had not decided where in the United States it would befiled. 	   In a statement, the Swiss National Bank declared: ``We areresolved to oppose any such action, which would have no basis inlaw, with all the legal means at our disposal, particularly sincewe contest the competence of the U. S.  courts in our case. ''	   The statement added: ``An out-of-court settlement does not enterinto consideration. ''	   The statement came just eight days after Switzerland's big threeprivate banks agreed to negotiate what was termed a ``globalsettlement'' to halt three separate class-action suits brought byHolocaust survivors. 
	   Werner Abegg, a Swiss National Bank spokesman in Zurich, saidthat the statement on Friday had been issued to ``make it veryclear that, even under the threat of a class-action suit, theNational Bank, as a public body, cannot make an out-of-courtsettlement. ''	   An independent inquiry by Swiss historians found that the SwissNational Bank had bought some $389 million worth of gold _ atwartime prices _ from Nazi Germany, while a further $61 million waspurchased through private Swiss banks.  At present prices, thosefigures would be multiplied roughly ninefold. 	   The Swiss National Bank estimates its own purchases of Nazi goldat $280 million, at wartime exchange rates, and acknowledges thatit was the largest buyer of gold from the German Reichsbank. 	   But under an agreement with the United States and other Westernpowers reached in 1946, the Swiss authorities agreed to pay backonly some $58 million. 	   Since the gold sold by Nazi Germany included bullion looted fromcentral banks in occupied Europe and gold stolen from Jews andother individuals _ known as ``victim gold'' _ Swiss institutionshave been under mounting pressure to repay far more than either theNational Bank or the commercial banks have acknowledged holding. 	   The World Jewish Congress estimates that gold purchased bySwitzerland during the war that had been stolen from individuals,including Jews dispatched to Nazi death camps, would be worth $1billion today, said Elan Steinberg, the organization's executivedirector in New York. 	   In its statement on Friday, the Swiss National Bank sought toclose off further discussion of those transactions, saying itswartime gold transactions were ``the subject of a binding agreementunder international law. '' The Swiss National Bank and the Swissgovernment have resisted suggestions that the Washington agreementshould be reopened. 
	   During that period, Swiss private banks, the central bank, andsome industries have set up a $180-million fund for needy Holocaustsurvivors.  An inquiry led by Paul Volcker, former chairman of theU. S.  Federal Reserve, is looking for money left in Swiss banks byHolocaust victims and survivors.  And the Swiss authorities haveestablished a commission of historians to investigate the overallrelationship between Switzerland and Nazi Germany. 	   The pending lawsuit could well increase pressure on the SwissNational Bank to join the settlement that is to be negotiated bythe three big private banks _ Credit Suisse, the Union Bank ofSwitzerland, and the Swiss Bank Corp.  _ with class-action lawyersand the World Jewish Congress. 	   Israel Singer, the secretary-general of the World JewishCongress, said on Friday that the dispute would not end until allof the various players in Switzerland with ``things to own up to''had done so, including the Swiss National Bank. 	   ``Each of them is going to have to realize that they are goingto have to come and conclude this process,'' he said. 
 Everyone isgoing to have to step up to the plate. '' NYT19980403. 0473  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:41:00 MARCH UNEMPLOYMENT RISES	   After months in overdrive, the great American jobs engine seemssuddenly to be idling. 	   In March, for the first time in more than two years, the economyadded no new jobs, the Labor Department reported on Friday. Payrolls edged down by 36,000 jobs, and the unemployment rate,which had been at a 24-year low, edged up to 4. 7 percent from 4. 6percent.  The Labor Department also reported that February's jobgains were being revised downward. 	   Even though most economists were expecting job growth tomoderate, the different job market picture conveyed by Friday'sreport caught them by surprise. 
 Last month's dip in jobs _ the first since January 1996,when snowstorms shut down businesses in the Northeast _ may reflectthe abnormal weather patterns of the last few months more than realchanges in the labor market.  Unseasonable cold during the surveyperiod last month, following unusually warm temperatures in Januaryand February, may have skewed the seasonal adjustments the LaborDepartment makes to raw job-survey figures. 	   Katherine Abraham, commissioner of the Bureau of LaborStatistics, said, ``There's a lot in this report that you have todiscount. ''	   The jobs report nonetheless warmed the hearts of those investorswho welcome any sign that the labor market is cooling, particularlythose who trade bonds.  The economy had been adding jobs at a paceof more than 300,000 a month, fanning fears that employers wererunning out of workers and leading some to declare that the FederalReserve might move to raise interest rates to brake growth. 	   Now, such possibilities seem more remote and stock and bondprices responded accordingly.  Stocks finished mostly higher onFriday, while a rally in bonds pushed the yield on the benchmark30-year Treasury down to 5. 79 percent, the lowest since Feb.  17. 
	   On the other hand, few believe that the job market is shrinkingas abruptly as the Labor Department's data might suggest.  ``This isnothing to worry about,'' said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist atMerrill Lynch. 	   Just as El Nino and unseasonably warm temperatures in Januaryand February exaggerated the job market's strength in the winter,the unseasonable cold in some of March is probably exaggerating theweakness just reported. 	   ``Large numbers of construction workers normally are laid offduring the November-to-February period,'' Dr.  Abraham said. ``During the recent winter, however, fewer workers than normal werelaid off.  With so many construction jobs already filled,early-spring hiring fell short of its usual pace. ''	   Job growth averaged 205,000 a month this past quarter.  That isnot as strong as the 356,000 rate of the last quarter of 1997, butit is robust by any measure. 
 Yellen.  Like most privateforecasters, she said, the Council of Economic Advisers expects jobgrowth to be more moderate than last year.  ``As we go toward theend of the year we'll be looking at numbers more in the hundreds,''she said.  ``We've gotten a little spoiled. '' A pace of 125,000 newjobs or so a month would keep the unemployment rate about where itis now. 	   The Labor Department reported that in March, after seasonaladjustment, 88,000 jobs were lost in construction and 43,000 inrestaurants. 	   But some businesses tell a different story.  Mitchell Fromstein,head of Manpower Inc. , the largest temporary-help service,confirmed this. 
 ``We don't sense any downturn in our business. ''	   Similarly, home building and office construction are booming. ``We've had more and more reports from builders that their bigproblem is finding qualified labor,'' said Michael Carliner at theNational Association of Home Builders.  ``We have no inclinationthat there's been a decline in employment. ''	   And while McDonald's recently announced that it would invest inlabor-saving technology and Pepsico is spinning off its restaurantchains, help-wanted signs are still much in evidence at drive-infranchise locations around the country. 	   Indeed, the National Federation of Independent Business, whichissued its monthly survey on Friday, reports that the No.  1 problemfacing small businesses is still finding qualified workers. Twenty-eight percent of the respondents, a near-record, said theyhad job openings they could not fill. 	   The Labor Department reported strong job gains in computer anddata processing, engineering and management services and financialservices, which are benefiting from a the boom in home buying andstock investing. 
 Manufacturing employment, vulnerable to weakness in Asianmarkets and more intense competition from lower-price Asianimports, actually rose by 3,000 last month. 	   Total hours worked declined by seven-tenths of 1 percent fromFebruary.  But for the quarter, hours are still 4. 9 percent abovelast quarter's level.  That suggests that economic growth thisquarter has been fairly solid.  (In the fall quarter, hours grew 4. 6percent, while the gross domestic product rose 3. 7 percent. )	   Despite the rise in unemployment, there were still classic signsof tightness in the labor market. 
 And the average duration of unemployment declined to 6. 8weeks from 7. 2. 	   Hourly earnings rose 4 cents last month, to $12. 63.  But theprevious month's increase, originally reported as 8 cents, wasrevised down to 6 cents.  ``Wages aren't accelerating as fast as wasfeared,'' Wyss said.  NYT19980403. 0475  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:43:00 SMITHSONIAN FIRES ARCHITECT OF NATIONAL INDIAN MUSEUM	   From its inception, the concept of the National Museum of theAmerican Indian, planned for the Mall in Washington, was meant tobe a design apart. 
 The chief designer,Douglas Cardinal, is of Blackfoot ancestry. 	   And soon he began to fashion a dramatic, swooping building ofrough-hewn limestone, meant to resemble cliffs carved away, withwindows aligned so that at winter and summer solstices, the sun'srays would shoot in like beams to illuminate sacred objects.  At thecenter, he planned a circular gathering spot, or potomac, forstorytellers and dancers. 	   The museum, sitting next to the Capitol, would be a symbol offorgiveness and healing, he said. 	   But in what it called a ``drastic action,'' the SmithsonianInstitution has terminated its contract with Cardinal, a prominent64-year-old Canadian, and with his collaborators, GBQC Architectsof Philadelphia, adding a serious complication to the life of the$110 million project. 	   The termination, first reported this week by The WashingtonPost, has come after a protracted period of wrangling between thearchitect, who considers himself a ``warrior,'' and the museum overdelays and contractual disagreements.  Last year, saying he had``run out of resources'' because of the extra hours he was puttingin, Cardinal decided to ``make a stand,'' as he put it, bywithholding his architectural drawings, in effect holding theproject hostage. 	   Failure to deliver the working and technical drawings, as wellas procedural delays between the two firms, were major reasons forthe dismissal, Smithsonian officials said.  ``It's a step we'vetaken with the greatest reluctance,'' said David Umansky, aspokesman for the Smithsonian Institution, which had planned tobreak ground on the 250,000-square-foot project in the fall. 
Cardinal did not live up to the contract.  We came to the difficultdecision that we had to move on if this building was going to openin the year 2002.  We have an obligation to produce the museum withthe money we have. ''	   The Smithsonian, he added, relies on congressionalappropriations.  ``This Congress looks very carefully on how moneyis being spent. ''	   The museum says it plans to build Cardinal's design _ which hasalready passed the hurdles of approval by the federal Commission ofFine Arts and the National Capital Planning Commission _ with asuccessor yet to be named. 	   ``It's obviously been very painful,'' said the museum'sdirector, J.  Richard West, a Cheyenne.  ``But it is our absoluteintention to build Douglas' design, and to give him credit for it,with continued native involvement. 
M. 	   ``The plans for this building have been drawn by a genius NativeAmerican artist who has taken the trouble to confer with Indians atevery step of the way,'' he said.  ``We have a fantastic designproduced by a Native American.  They have no ethical right to take aman's design, whether he's Indian or Chinese.  It's like lettingsomeone finish your painting.  Why don't they recognize theimportance of allowing him to carry forth to see his design putinto place proudly?''	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) Cardinal and GBQC are planning to appeal the decision, whichthey can do until April 27.  In the meantime, the museum has hiredanother architectural team _ James Stewart Polshek and Partners ofNew York and Tobey and Davis of Reston, Va.  _ to conduct a ``peerreview'' of the project, to ``see where we are,'' Umansky said. 
 There has been some speculationthat Polshek might take over the project, which he denied.  But hesaid that, if he did, ``we would do it to assist the federalgovernment in a difficult situation.  I do think the building willbe completed in a way that will please Douglas Cardinal. ''	   Cardinal, who built a sweat lodge for himself 12 miles from theWashington Monument after moving to Washington to work on thedesign, is well known in Canada for infusing his buildings with hisnative experience.  He is ``metis,'' a French term for mixedancestry; his mother was French, German and Mohawk, his fatherBlackfoot, French and Ojibwa.  His best-known building is theCanadian Museum of Civilization in Hull, Quebec, a copper-domed,masklike structure across the river from Ottawa.  The Indian Museumwas his first major U. S.  commission. 
 ``They indicated to me they would makethose provisions,'' he said.  The museum advanced him $150,000, butby the end of the year, he said, he was ``$300,000 in the hole. ''	   It was at that point, he said, that some of the elders advisedhim to hold his drawings until the problem was resolved.  With agift from an anonymous donor, he said, he continued the work afterhe was dismissed because he ``wanted to get the project back ontrack. ''	   Cardinal is no stranger to controversy.  In the early 1980s hemade headlines in Canada when he suggested that, rather thancompromise his design for the Museum of Canadian Civilization, they``bulldoze it back into a park. '' They did not, and it opened togreat fanfare. 	   Canadian architectural historian Trevor Boddy has written thatthe unusual cast of Cardinal's designs, which have generally beensituated in remote places, coupled with a cultivated outsiderpersona, tended to keep him off the architectural A-lists. 	   ``Douglas Cardinal is a survivor,'' Boddy said in a telephoneinterview, ``and he tends to be routinely underestimated. 
 He's a verycomplex person. ''	   Cardinal himself, as is his wont, is trying to take the longview.  ``The elders have guided me,'' said the architect, who reliesheavily on state-of-the-art computer technology to execute hisvoluptuous forms.  ``They want to be sure the whole building is donewith honor, that it be a strong expression of their voice.  That'sthe only way the building will have power. '' NYT19980403. 0476  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:44:00 FOR LITTLE ROCK, THE BUCK STOPS LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  _ The official position of Doe's Eat Place _its steakhouse walls boasting notes signed ``Bill,'' thanking theowner for firm campaign support and tender porterhouse _ is immensejoy and relief over the dismissal of the Paula Jones case in acourthouse right near here. 	   The unofficial position, stated by Peter Skrivanos,contemplating a month or more of tables crowded with tippers onEast Coast media expense accounts: ``I was going to get a Lexus,''he moaned. 
 But aminute later, one of those waiters was calculating that he was outat least $1,000.  The restaurant manager added that, with plans foremergency shipments of cabernet, she had expected an extra $10,000a week. 	   From mid-May to the end of June, you see, Little Rock wasdestined to be more popular than the Hamptons in August.  With a lotof the same part-time residents.  A news consortium, making plans onthe scale of a major party convention, already had nearly 100members who planned to send 700 journalists, including 115 from NBCalone. 	   For a city of Little Rock's 175,000 population, the boon, nowlost, was even beyond the ability of civic boosters to inflate. Barry Travis, executive director of the Little Rock Convention andVisitors Bureau, estimated $50,000 a day.  But that amount wouldhave hardly covered hotel bills, let alone steak and cabernet. 	   By Friday, some Little Rock business people had decided thatescaping this onslaught helped compensate for the loss of revenues. 
 News organizations complained of hotels wanting tens ofthousands of dollars in non-refundable fees and deposits to coverminimum-stay requirements of 45 days beginning well before the May27 trial date. 	   The hotels responded that, especially given the chance that thecase wouldn't reach trial, they needed the deposits to make up forreservations they were turning away and wholesale alterations thatnews organizations demanded. 	   Linda Ward, general manager of the Legacy Hotel, whooped whenshe saw the news of the dismissal.  Later, stalking her hotel lobby,she addressed those distant journalists who now would not even bearriving.  ``Go away!'' she said, waving her arms as if swatting ata cloud of gnats. 	   Television networks seized on the Legacy, directly across fromthe courthouse door, as the perfect vantage point for theircameras.  But they squawked loudly and publicly when, for each roomfacing the courthouse, normally going for $95, Ms.  Ward proposedcharging them $15,000 up front, plus $250 a day. 	   Besides reflecting supply and demand, she said, these expensescovered the networks' plans for remaking the rooms into a stack ofbroadcast booths. 
	   Talks with some news organizations broke down last month.  Ms. Ward said that several thousand dollars received in non-refundabledeposits won't compensate for business, including Promise Keepersconventioneers, that she lost.  ``But I'd rather take the hit thantake the harassment any day,'' she said. 	   The Arkansas Excelsior Hotel has received a publicity windfall,of sorts.  The networks displayed its soaring brick-and-glass facadewhenever they mentioned it as the scene of the president's allegedand unwelcome advances on Mrs.  Jones. 	   But indoor adventure tourism has its limits.  Will a tastefulplaque ever mark the exact room? ``I think you know the answer tothat,'' said a hotel executive. 
 Ms.  Grayfindley refused to confirm that the Excelsior wasamong those that had exacted large deposits. 	   The loss of business extended far beyond the state's borders. The Legacy's new windows had to be ordered from Florida, and thecity planned to rent truckloads of crowd barriers from New Orleans,normally much wilder, to contain the throngs outside thecourthouse. 	   Many here bemoaned not just the loss of future revenues but alsotime and money invested.  This week, about 30 members of the LittleRock Media Consortium and assisting technicians met to refine plansfor remaking the city to their liking.  They planned to turn thestreets and parking lots in front of the courthouse into PresspassStadium, with fenced-off interview bullpens and tiered risers forcamera crews and photographers.  An office building was to become amedia center with 1,000 new phone lines and its own deadline-ready,fast-food franchises. 	   Just as the meeting broke up came news of the judge's decision. 
 Jones' lawyerscouldn't have been louder. 	   ``Absolute disappointment,'' said William Headline, theconsortium's director.  ``We were all revved up.  We wanted to seethis through to the end. '' Headline, a former CNN Washington bureauchief, was snatched two days into his retirement to serve as themedia's organizer and avuncular go-between with apprehensive localauthorities.  Friday he was busy closing down his cramped office, ata local television station, while conferring with the court to fileand compile all their big plans for handling the media hordes. 	   With Mrs.  Jones intending to appeal, and almost three years leftin the current administration, that's just in case.  ``Who knows whoelse will come out of the woodwork?'' Headline said. 
 ``I feel reliefthat it's not happening,'' said Travis of the Convention andVisitors Bureau.  ``But if they were going to spend those dollarssomewhere, Little Rock is a good place. '' NYT19980403. 0479  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:49:00 FOR PAULA JONES, APPEALS COURT IS A WILD CARD WASHINGTON _ If Paula Jones decides to appeal the rulingthrowing out her lawsuit against President Clinton, her case willgo before a generally conservative circuit court in St.  Louis, witha record that could cut both ways for her case. 	   The 8th U. S.  Circuit Court of Appeals, legal experts say, hasnot only been consistently unhelpful to Clinton, but it has alsobeen generally hostile to complaints of sexual discrimination atthe workplace like the one brought by Mrs.  Jones. 
 Jones' lawyers said Friday that the decision on whether toappeal the case rests solely with her and will probably be madenext week.  She must appeal within 30 days from Wednesday, the daywhen Judge Susan Webber Wright dismissed the sexual misconductcase.  Ms.  Wright rejected all of the claims stemming from what Mrs. Jones said was a 1991 encounter with Clinton in a Little Rock,Ark. , hotel suite. 	   The judge said that even if Mrs.  Jones' assertion that Clintonmade a crude sexual advance in the suite was true, there was noevidence that it constituted sexual harassment. 	   Lynne Bernabei, a lawyer based in Washington who specializes insexual harassment cases, said she believed that Ms. 
	   ``The fact that the judge gave Paula Jones' side so much leewayin discovery proceedings to prove their case will make it that muchharder to overturn,'' Ms.  Bernabei said. 	   Other legal experts said the 8th Circuit judges had created astrong record in favor of defendants in employment discriminationcases, which is Clinton's role in this case. 	   ``Given that this circuit has been trying to cut back on theease with which people can bring these suits, you could say thiswould be an easy case to affirm,'' said Roger Goldman, a lawprofessor at St.  Louis University.  ``But if you look at thepolitical side of things, that would cut in the other direction. Almost all the judges who are not recused on this matter wereappointed by either Bush or Reagan and to the extent that politicsmakes a difference, that would cut in the other direction. ''	   Goldman was referring to the fact that just three of the 10active judges on the appeals court have been appointed byDemocratic presidents, and two of the three have made it known theywould not participate in any cases involving Clinton. 	   A similar view to Goldman's was offered by Leland Ware of thesame law school who has studied the appeals court's handling ofsummary judgments. 
 ``This is a defendant-friendly circuit inthese kinds of cases. ''	   But he said many lawyers who practice before the 8th Circuitbelieved that its judges were not favorably disposed towardClinton.  ``That's what makes this such an interesting call,'' hesaid. 	   Among the cases Clinton has lost before the 8th Circuit was onein which a three-judge panel overruled Ms.  Wright in January 1996. In a 2-1 ruling, that panel said the Jones lawsuit should not bedelayed until the end of Clinton's tenure as president, and orderedthe case to go forward.  Its decision was upheld by a unanimousSupreme Court. 	   In April 1997, another panel voted 2-1 against the White Housewhen it said that notes taken by government lawyers of theirconversations with Hillary Rodham Clinton could not be withheldfrom Kenneth Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel. 	   And in a third case, in March 1996, a unanimous three-judgepanel ruled in favor of Starr's expanding his investigation andtook the unusual step of removing the lower-court judge from thecase because he had spoken of his admiration for Mrs. 
	   Judge Pasco Bowman II, who was appointed by President RonaldReagan, was a member of all three of those panels.  He was also thechief judge of the panel that overruled Ms.  Wright in 1996, andthat panel could inherit any appeal from Mrs.  Jones. 	   Court officials said that if for some reason the same panel didnot hear the Jones case, the clerk would then be obliged to choosea new three-judge panel by lottery. 	   In any event, the appeals court could not hear arguments in thecase until next fall at the earliest, some court officials saidFriday.  NYT19980403. 0480  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:53:00 KWAN WINS SHORT PROGRAM AT SKATING CHAMPIONSHIP MINNEAPOLIS _ With a smiling, joyous performance that bore noneof the caution she displayed at the Nagano Olympics, Michelle Kwandecisively won the women's short program Friday at the world figureskating championships. 	   On an otherwise inelegant afternoon, when only four of the 30skaters delivered clean programs, Kwan received a perfect mark of 6for artistry from the Canadian judge. 
	   Skating to a Rachmaninoff piano trio and concerto, Kwan showednone of the deliberateness that cost her a gold medal at the WinterGames in Nagano, Japan, in February.  She was elegant, confident andfast on Friday, with exquisite position and flow in her triplelutz-double toe combination and with a graceful, extended spiralthat drew customary applause from the audience at the TargetCenter.  She wobbled slightly upon landing her double axel, butotherwise Kwan was at her self-assured best. 	   Tara Lipinski, the Olympic gold medalist, was absent, havingwithdrawn with sickness and fatigue.  But Lipinski had not defeatedKwan in a short program this season, and it was unlikely that shecould have prevailed Friday. 	   ``Knowing that the world championships were in my home countrymeant a lot,'' said Kwan, who is 17 and lives in Lake Arrowhead,Calif.  ``When I stepped on the ice, I saw the American flags andthe banners and I wanted to give the audience the joy and freedomthat I have on the ice. ''	   Saturday's long program will be worth two-thirds of the scoring. Kwan is a heavy favorite to win her second world title. 
	   Rechnio, 20, did not even qualify for the previous two worldchampionships, where her best career finish is 14th.  She hadtrained for several seasons in Marlboro, Mass. , but this season shereturned to Warsaw, changed coaches, got injured and missed theEuropean championships.  Now healthy, she landed spectacular jumpsFriday and vaulted into second place. 	   Hubert, 23, is an all-or-nothing skater.  At the 1992 WinterGames in her native France, she fell a half-dozen times in the longprogram and was nicknamed ``The Human Zamboni. '' At the NaganoGames, she became so deflated with her poor jumping that sheappeared on the verge of stopping in the middle of her longprogram.  But she also defeated Lipinski at Trophy Lalique in Parislast November.  Friday, Hubert was one of only two skaters to land atriple-triple combination. 
	   Kwan's only problem came in the draw for Saturday's longprogram.  She drew first in the final group of skaters, which shehad done at the Winter Olympics. 	   ``We'll have to go home and work on that,'' Kwan said with alaugh.  NYT19980403. 0483  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 21:57:00 LEWINSKY'S MOTHER QUESTIONED AGAIN, BUT NOT BEFORE JURY WASHINGTON _ Investigators from the office of independentcounsel Kenneth Starr questioned Monica Lewinsky's mother againFriday but outside the foreboding confines of the grand jury room,according to lawyers close to Starr's inquiry. 	   The renewed questioning of Ms.  Lewinsky's mother, Marcia Lewis,appeared to reflect Starr's pledge to press on with hisinvestigation of whether President Clinton had a sexualrelationship with Ms.  Lewinsky, a former White House intern, thenencouraged her and others to lie about it _ accusations that thepresident has repeatedly denied. 	   At the same time, Starr's decision to question Ms. 
	   Starr's office did not return a telephone call seeking commenton the questioning of Ms.  Lewis and about renewed criticism of hisinvestigative tactics, including his subpoena of bookstore recordsto determine whether Lewinsky might have given books as gifts tothe president. 	   William Ginsburg, Ms.  Lewinsky's lawyer, also declined commentFriday on the latest questioning of Ms.  Lewis.  It could not bedetermined what was asked and whether Ms.  Lewis made anyconcessions to the prosecutor in return for being spared the ordealof going before the grand jury again. 	   Friday, the president was still savoring his victory of two daysearlier, the dismissal of Paula Jones' sexual-misconduct suitagainst him, when he was asked on the White House lawn for hisreaction to a report that Starr may change his whole strategy. 	   According to U. 
 News &AMP; World Report, some people in Starr'soffice want the grand jury to indict Ms.  Lewinsky and name thepresident as an unindicted co-conspirator.  That way, the findingsagainst Clinton would have a public airing in a courtroom, butthere would be no need to address the unanswered constitutionalissue of whether a sitting president can be indicted. 	   Other aides to Starr favor turning the evidence over toCongress, according to the magazine, which reported on the supposeddebate in Starr's office on the Internet.  Those aides are said tofeel that leaving the president's fate to Congress _ assuming thereis sufficient evidence to charge him _ would be the best course,even though many political observers doubt that Congress wouldimpeach Clinton in this election year, especially since he isenjoying high ratings in the polls. 	   Asked at a news conference Friday about the article, Clintondeclined to comment. 	   Starr has been under mounting criticism since a federal judge inLittle Rock, Ark. , threw out the suit by Mrs.  Jones, a formerArkansas state employee who contends that then-Governor Clintonmade a lewd proposal to her in a hotel room in 1991 _ accusationsClinton has denied. 
 They are separate matters, although ithas often been difficult to tell how separate. 	   Starr's inquiry began as an investigation into financialdealings of Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, years agoin Arkansas and has delved in recent months into Clinton's sexualbehavior.  The people involved in the Jones suit and in the episodesthat Starr has been studying have occasionally overlapped. 	   Starr's attempt to learn more about Ms.  Lewinsky's book-buyingwas the subject of a hearing in Washington on Friday before U. S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson. 	   Starr has subpoenaed the records of Kramerbooks and Afterwords,an independent store in Washington's Dupont Circle neighborhood, aswell as records from Barnes &AMP; Noble, to review Ms.  Lewinsky's bookpurchases of the past two and a half years. 
	   Friday's hearing dealt only with the Kramerbooks subpoena, andit saw lawyers for Ms.  Lewinsky and for Kramerbooks standing inunity. 	   ``She's not been charged with anything,'' one of Ms.  Lewinsky'slawyers, Nathaniel Speights, said, asserting that his client ``hasthe right to have her privacy protected by this court. ''	   ``Our ability to read is exactly what the founding fathers hadin mind when the Bill of Rights was written,'' Pamela Bethel, alawyer for Kramerbooks, argued. 	   But Robert Bittman, a lawyer from Starr's office, said the grandjury needed the list of purchases Ms.  Lewinsky made in order tocorroborate other evidence.  ``It's not the books part, it's theexchanging of gifts that we're looking at,'' Bittman said. 	   Ms. 
 NYT19980403. 0485  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:00:00 A VOICE, AND SPIRIT, REMEMBERED AT WRIGLEY CHICAGO _ With two outs in the top of the seventh inning onFriday at Wrigley Field, the sold-out crowd rose to its feet andbegan to cheer, eagerly anticipating the seventh-inning stretch anda tradition made famous at this park by the legendary announcerHarry Caray. 	   But following Caray's death two months ago at 83, Cubs fansturned out at the team's home opener on Friday to listen to hiswidow, Dutchie, sing ``Take Me Out to the Ball Game,'' which herhusband had spent 16 years crooning to the delight of adoring,jubilant fans. 	   The cheers and chants of ``Harry, Harry,'' grew louder and theintensity increased so much in the seventh inning that whenMontreal's Chris Widger hit a routine fly ball to Chicago's SammySosa in right field, Sosa dropped it, prolonging the wait.  In thebroadcast booth, Mrs.  Caray waited nervously for her debut. 	   It wasn't until after a walk of the following batter and apitching change that the half-inning finally ended and she assumedthe spot Harry Caray had made famous, leaning out of the booth,microphone waving. 	   Her voice was lost among the 39,102 fans, all of whom weresinging along.  As the song ended, balloons were released over thefield as ``Amazing Grace'' played over the loudspeakers. 
 ``Itwas a great feeling.  To see how much these fans loved Harry is justamazing. ''	   The day was an all-out tribute to Harry Caray, whose love forthe game and eccentric personality brought fans from all over towatch a team known for losing. 	   Indeed, his caricatured face that has come to resemble ``fun atthe old ball park,'' was omnipresent here on Friday.  His faceappeared on a patch on players' sleeves, his trademark glasses wereworn by fans, and a giant poster of him hung above his broadcastbooth, now occupied by his 33-year-old grandson, Chip.  With amoment of silence before the game, he was remembered by the peoplehe exemplified: baseball fans. 	   ``Today was a day I was looking forward to for a long time,''Chip Caray said before the game.  ``It was supposed to be the firstday my grandpa and I worked together. ''	   The Cubs have lined up a number of celebrities to come in andsing, including Ernie Banks on Saturday. 
	   Many of the Cubs faithful would tell you that Harry Caray wasthere, maybe even pulling a few strings as Chicago beat the Expos,6-2, improving its record to 3-1.  Perhaps it was the 18-mph windblowing straight in from center field (Steve Trachsel, the Cubs'starting pitcher, led the National League in home runs allowed lastyear), or the fact that Trachsel himself had three runs batted in. 	   ``Harry would have been very happy with today,'' said Matt Wolf,who traveled from North Carolina with his wife, Laura, for thegame.  ``We normally come up for two or three games a year, but weknew we had to be here for this.  It was just wild. '' NYT19980403. 0490  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:11:00 FROM PRIVATE RESIDENCE TO COMMUNITY RESOURCE	    &UR; (Terry PACE is a staff writer for the Florence (Ala. ) TimesDaily.  This story was distributed by The N. 
 Times News Service. ) &LR; 	   FLORENCE, Ala.  _ From the area's earliest movie houses to thedevelopment of the region's first modern library, the legacyestablished by Florence businessman Louis Rosenbaum has enhancedquality of life here for three generations. 	   As the century draws to a close, the Rosenbaum family hopes totransform one of their long-treasured possessions _ theUsonian-style family home designed by world-renowned architectFrank Lloyd Wright _ into a vital cultural resource for generationsto come. 	   ``What I really want is to give the house away so that it can berestored and maintained,'' said Mildred Rosenbaum, who has lived inthe house since its construction began in 1939.  ``We don't have thefunds needed to restore the house, so we'd like to see it fullyrestored and turned into a house museum that people can fullyenjoy. ''	   Plans for the transfer of the historic home are beingcoordinated by her sons, Alvin Rosenbaum, a published author,designer, regional planner and founding president of the NationalCenter for Heritage Development. 	   ``This house is a very important example of Americanarchitecture,'' maintains Rosenbaum, whose comprehensive book,``Usonia _ Frank Lloyd Wright's Design for America,'' was publishedin 1993.  ``It needs to be saved and taken care of and madeavailable to the public. 
 in Florence. 	   In his book, Alvin Rosenbaum described Wright's unique Usonianconcept as ``. . .  a place where design commingled with nature,expanding the idea of architecture to include a civilization, autopian ideal that integrated spiritual harmony and materialprosperity across a seamless, unspoiled landscape. '' As hedeveloped the Rosenbaums' future home, Wright envisioned thestructure as a prototype for his daring new approach to residentialdesign for middle-class Americans. 	   ``The Rosenbaum house is the purest example of the Usonian,''Cambridge University scholar and architect John Sargeant proclaimedin ``Frank Lloyd Wright's Usonian Houses,'' a book published in1976.  ``It incorporates detailing improvements and combines all thestandard elements in a mature and spatially varied interior. ''	   The house has been owned by the Rosenbaum family since itsconstruction, and Wright has been quoted by Frank Lloyd WrightFoundation archivist Bruce Brooks Pfeiffer as calling the couple``ideal clients'' who ``lived appropriately and beautifully intheir home. 
Today the Rosenbaum house enjoys the distinction of being the onlyWright-designed structure in Alabama and the only pre-World War IIWright house that is still occupied by its original owner. 	   ``We showed the house to people from the very beginning, becausepeople just asked out of curiosity,'' Mildred Rosenbaum recalled. ``It was unlike anything this area had ever seen.  They couldn'timagine what was behind that blank wall in front.  They either rangthe bell or knocked on the door and asked, `May we come in andsee?' We allowed them to for years.  Then, after Stanley passedaway, I just didn't feel up to it. ''	   Since 1991 _ after an open house drew an overwhelmingsingle-afternoon crowd of 800 people _ Mildred Rosenbaum has servedas a live-in curator and tale-spinning tour guide, offeringfascinating, firsthand remembrances of the house, her family andWright himself.  Over the past seven years, the Rosenbaum House hasbeen visited by close to 5,000 tourists representing 48 states and20 foreign countries. 	   ``These people came to see the Rosenbaum House,'' AlvinRosenbaum noted, ``but they also came to be a part of the W. 
Handy Music Festival, or to see Wilson Dam, to fish or swim, tostay overnight or to spend part of their family vacation here inthe Shoals.  Those things have a tremendous economic impact on anarea _ much more than they're usually given credit for. ''	   With that in mind, the family hopes to see the proposedRosenbaum house museum developed in conjunction with a broad-basedcommunity partnership focusing on the benefits of cultural tourism. Supporters say the restoration of the Rosenbaum house will beaccompanied by the development of educational and cultural-outreachprograms. 	   In January, Mildred and Alvin Rosenbaum discussed the future ofthe house with representatives of the Florence-based Frank LloydWright Rosenbaum House Foundation as well as local leaders inbusiness, education, tourism, historic preservation and the arts. Since that time, Alvin Rosenbaum has been engaged in assembling aplanning team and soliciting support for the project from potentialfunding sources across the country. 	   ``Initially, I've had substantial expressions of interest andsome very good responses,'' he said.  ``However, I think that thereis a truism that national foundations and funding sources are onlyavailable to the extent that there is local commitment.  These days,public-sector support is not as important as individual people. 
 It involves partnerships andcooperative relationships with other organizations, so that we'renot duplicating efforts that are already being done. ''	   Alvin Rosenbaum believes his family's cherished home _ whichcelebrates its landmark 60th anniversary next year _ can bedeveloped as ``the hub for a region-wide heritage initiative'' thatencompasses all of the cultural attractions in the Shoals _ fromthe Helen Keller birthplace in Tuscumbia to the Renaissance Towerin Florence as well as the various gospel sings, barbecue suppersand bass-fishing tournaments that define the area's local color. 	   ``Just doing the project isn't enough,'' Rosenbaum added.  ``Youhave to do it in such a way that it's sustainable and part of anoverall plan for the entire area.  I just talked to my 7-year-old onthe phone.  When he's 67, the house needs to be here, pristine,telling the story that's part of his life. ''	   For his recent return to the Shoals, Rosenbaum was joined by J. Jackson Walter, who served as president of the National Trust forHistoric Preservation for seven years.  Walter, who Rosenbauminsists ``wrote the book on how historic preservation is nowpracticed in the United States,'' is helping the family organize asteering committee for the Campaign to Save the Rosenbaum House. 
, a town that has beendesignated as a National Historic Landmark.  ``Now that I've beenhere, what's interesting to me is the actual context _ the way thishouse and this family fit into the history of this area.  There's somuch here _ from the TVA story to the music industry _ and it's avery interesting mix.  I suspect that the restoration of this housewill have a catalytic effect on the understanding of the MuscleShoals area and how it presents itself to the larger public. ''	   On a personal level, Alvin Rosenbaum wants the restoration ofthe house to continue a long-standing family tradition of``building the character of this community. '' His grandfather,Louis Rosenbaum, introduced movies to the Shoals and helped supportinstitutions ranging from churches to libraries.  His father,Stanley Rosenbaum, retired from the movie-theater business andlaunched an even more fulfilling career as a professor of Englishliterature at the University of North Alabama. 	   ``My father was an educator, and as anyone who's visited herecan tell you, books practically hold the house up,'' Rosenbaumobserved.  ``This house was full of college students and otherfriends talking about ideas, enjoying an intellectual atmosphereand participating in a certain quality that this house eked out ofpeople. 
''	   Rosenbaum also considers the restoration project a tribute tothe spirit and dedication of his mother, who turned 80 last yearand continues to conduct public tours of the house _ by appointmentonly _ on a regular basis.  Just last month, the Alabama Bureau ofTourism and Travel named Mildred Rosenbaum among 12 of ``Alabama'sUnforgettable Faces'' _ an honor citing individuals who ``make avery positive impression'' on visitors to the state. 	   ``Certainly the house without Mimi is not the same thing as thehouse with her,'' Alvin Rosenbaum admits.  ``She will be involved inevery aspect of this so long as she is able to be involved _ whichI would predict is to her dying day.  I hope that's not for a longtime. '' NYT19980403. 0492  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:13:00 RAIN DELAYS FIRST DAY OF DAVIS CUP MATCHES STONE MOUNTAIN, Ga.  _ Those tennis fans intrepid enough to bravesevere thunderstorms in hopes of viewing Day 1 of the first-roundDavis Cup encounter between the United States and Russia wound uppocketing their soggy American flags and unfurling umbrellas Fridayafternoon at the International Tennis Center. 	   An official washout was declared about 4:30 p. 
 and bothsingles matches were postponed until Saturday because the teamcaptains refused to start a match under the lights.  	   ``The guys like to acclimate to the conditions, and nobody hashit one practice ball at night under the lights,'' said TomGullikson, the U. S.  captain who admitted he would have preferred toplay the doubles on Saturday following the two singles, a scenariothe Russians rejected. 	   A pair of former French Open champions, 53rd-ranked Jim Courier,who is backing Andre Agassi in singles, and sixth-ranked YevgenyKafelnikov, Russia's nonsecret weapon for singles and doubles, werescheduled to open the competition Friday. 	   The American doubles team of Todd Martin and Richey Renebergwill play Sunday morning, and the two reverse singles matches will,pending the length of the doubles match, follow, starting at 2 p. m. If doubles lasts 30 games or more, Russia can demand that thesingles be moved to Monday.  The Russian captain, Shamil Tarpichev,indicated that he and Kafelnikov, who faces Agassi in the fourthmatch, would make their decision depending on the score between thecountries once doubles has been played. 
 NYT19980403. 0495  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:19:00 A WORLD TRADE CENTER BOMBER GETS 240 YEARS NEW YORK _ Eyad Ismoil, the man who drove a rental van loadedwith a homemade bomb into the World Trade Center garage in 1993 andhelped cause the explosion that killed six people and injuredhundreds more, was sentenced on Friday to 240 years in prison. 	   In handing down the sentence, Judge Kevin T.  Duffy of U. S. District Court in Manhattan rejected Ismoil's contention that hehad not received a fair trial, as well as his lawyer's argumentthat Ismoil was not a knowing participant in the bombing plot whenhe was recruited into the conspiracy by Ramzi Yousef, who wasconvicted along with him in November. 	   ``What you did was a sneak attack,'' Duffy said.  ``What you didwas to kill innocents.  What you sought to do was to killinnocents. 
	   During the proceeding, Ismoil, the last of six defendantsconvicted of carrying out the bombing plot, continued to assert hisinnocence. 	   ``Jail me, and you will add one number to the wrong list,'' hesaid.  ``But don't think that you will ever rest, because tyrantsalways end up in trouble. ''	   He said that the charges were false and that they would ``fadelike a bubble. ''	   ``In this world,'' he said, ``a fair trial is always rare. ''	   The judge dismissed his contention.  ``You have received anextraordinarily fair trial, something which was done not as a showtrial but to give you the opportunity to put forward whatever youwanted to do,'' he said. 	   Under the rules of the federal system, Ismoil will not beeligible for parole, and is likely to spend the rest of his life inprison.  His sentence matches the 240-year-terms imposed on the fiveother men convicted in the bombing. 
S.  attorney in Manhattan, Mary Jo White, whose officeprosecuted the case, said the sentence ``once again sends a clearmessage that this country will respond to terrorist acts with thefull force of the law. ''	   Ismoil did not testify in the trial, but his lawyer, Louis R. Aidala, often sought to distance his client from Yousef, portrayinghim as a naive 21-year-old Jordanian who came to the United Statesto get an education and a job, and got swept into the conspiracy. 	   He said there was no evidence that Ismoil was a religious orpolitical fanatic, like Yousef.  Prosecutors said Ismoil was workingin Texas when he was called by Yousef and asked to help in theplot. 	   Ismoil told authorities after his arrest that he believed he wastransporting boxes of soap into the World Trade Center garage aspart of a business deal, the jury was told. 	   During Friday's proceeding, Aidala again questioned whetherthere was sufficient evidence that Ismoil knew he was participatingin a bombing. 	   Assistant U. 
 Attorney David Kelley argued that the jury hadmade fair conclusions from the circumstantial evidence. 	   The judge agreed and then echoed statements that he had made insentencing Yousef in January, when he said that the convictedterrorist had worshiped the god of ``death and destruction. ''	   ``You were like Ramzi Yousef because your god was evil,'' thejudge told Ismoil on Friday.  ``I am not talking about an evil god;I am talking about the personification of evil. '' NYT19980403. 0509  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:43:00 NEW YORK PLEASED BY HOUSE BILL ON TRANSPORT WASHINGTON _ When the dust settled this week after the Housepassed its mammoth $217 billion, six-year highway bill, most NewYork lawmakers walked away ecstatic about the millions they managedto reap for their state. 	   The bill has 47 percent more for New York state than did thelast highway bill, passed in 1991, including $652. 2 million from a$9 billion provision for special projects. 	   One clear reason for the increase is simple politics: The HouseTransportation Committee includes five New York members, four ofthem Republicans. 
	   ``New York fared a heck of a lot better than we had any reasonto expect,'' said Rep.  Jerrold Nadler, D-New York City. 	   Most of the millions in special projects would go towardmuch-needed asphalt-and-steel staples, like highway construction,bridges, parking lots and bus stations, but the bill also includes$40 million for a new Staten Island ferry in New York City. 	   Legislation of such mammoth proportions always covers a fewunusual projects.  For example, the Calspan University of BuffaloResearch Center, a nonprofit organization run jointly with theState University at Buffalo, N. Y. , would receive $12 million tohelp create the Center for Transportation Injury Research.  Thecenter, according to a recent news release, will work to ``findways to get the right type of emergency response to an accidentscene more quickly. ''	   The cries of a small band of vocal opponents of big spending didlittle to temper the House's overall enthusiasm for the bill, whichpassed 337-80. 
 Houston Street,for one, would be given wider sidewalks and improved stoplights ata cost of $2 million.  The 79th Street traffic circle off the WestSide Highway would be rebuilt for $9 million, and the FrederickDouglass Circle at the northwest corner of Central Park would beimproved, for $14. 65 million. 	   Nadler arranged for $19 million for barge companies carryingrail freight cars across the harbor between Brooklyn and NewJersey. 	   Nadler also had $24 million included for a study of the cost ofdigging a tunnel to replace the elevated section of the GowanusExpressway, which residents call an eyesore. 	   Members of Congress ``know what their districts need as well asor better than anyone else,'' Nadler said.  ``When members go homeand they say I got this or that, they better be reasonable projectsor they will be criticized back home for it. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   Overall, New York did well.  In addition to the money for specialprojects, the state would receive $7. 
57 billion for highways.  But it was the special projectsthat most interested members of Congress. 	   Rep.  Sherwood Boehlert, R-Utica, N. Y. , who is the fourth-ranking member of the House Transportation Committee, secured themost money in the New York delegation, bringing back $65 millionfor new roads, bridges and an assortment of other projects. 	   ``I take great pride that I come out No.  1,'' Boehlert said. ``It's not just a back-of-the-envelope exercise in the chairman'soffice in the wee hours of the evening. 
''	   The lone New York congressman to oppose the measure, Rep.  JohnLaFalce, D-Buffalo, N. Y. , said he voted against it to protest itsconspicuous largesse.  Critics said the bill threatened to bust thefederal budget, which was finally balanced last year, and cut intoimportant domestic programs. 	   House and Senate negotiators have yet to decide where to makethe cuts, although the bill's drafters and supporters say that gastaxes will pay for the special projects. 	   ``We experience the gain now, but we don't decide whoexperiences the pain later,'' LaFalce said.  ``That's not prudent. That's not fiscal discipline. 
 Buffalo,for example, would get $16 million for a new outer harbor bridge,courtesy of Rep.  Jack Quinn, R-Buffalo, a member of theTransportation Committee.  The Grand Concourse in the Bronx, in NewYork City, would get a redesigned look to ``enhance traffic flow''for another $16 million. 	   In Boehlert's upstate New York district, the Utica to Romeexpressway in Oneida County would be improved for $20 million. 	   Universities even got on the list.  Fordham would get $2 millionfor a large parking lot that is near bus and rail stations. 	   And there is $12 million for the State University at Buffalo'slittle-known National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research. The center plans to use the money to conduct research to reduce the``seismic vulnerability of the national highway system. '' NYT19980403. 
 Hewas on the phone or, more accurately, on hold, waiting for acar-service dispatcher to get back to him.  A heart condition andwalking pneumonia make it hard for him to get around. 	   ``I can't take public transportation,'' he said, his patiencewearing a bit thin.  ``Oh, I'll do it some other time. '' He hung upand rooted around the papers on his desk.  ``You know about therally on Saturday?'' he asked, holding out a flier plucked from thepile.  On it was a picture of the Rev.  Dr.  Martin Luther King Jr. 
''	   Foner, 82, may not be able to do much marching these days, buthe does what he can to fulfill the last half of that declaration. For decades he was second in command at 1199, the hospital workersunion, witnessing a tumultuous era when it went from representingdrugstore clerks and pharmacists to winning collective bargainingrights for thousands of low-paid, behind-the-scenes workers atnonprofit hospitals. 	   In those rocky times, King was a steadfast supporter of what hecalled his ``favorite union'' and the ``moral conscience of thelabor movement. ''	   Today, 30 years after King was assassinated in Memphis, Tenn. ,people may recall what the civil-rights leader did for the cause ofracial equality.  But people like Foner will never forget what hedid for organized labor, a struggle that King cast in terms ofhuman rights and dignity. 	   ``Some people know very little about Dr.  King,'' said Foner, whodirects the union's Bread and Roses project, which takes culture tothe work place.  ``King was involved with many unions. 
 But his association with us was special. ''	   When the two men met in 1959, the union was trying to organizein seven hospitals, despite the obstacles posed by reluctantmanagers and laws that excluded employees of nonprofit hospitalsfrom labor laws. 	   ``They were at the bottom of the ladder,'' Foner recalled. ``They received $26 a week and had no protection.  Everybody said tous: Don't touch the hospitals.  The workers won't stick togetherbecause they're poor.  Even assuming you get a majority, thehospitals don't have to agree to an election.  And if you go onstrike, all you'll get is injunctions, jailings and fines. ''	   Although the hospital workers were receptive to the union'sovertures, Foner and his colleagues decided they needed to openanother front in their campaign. 
	   ``We had to get the public's support, so that could have a moraleffect on management,'' he said.  ``You're dealing with trustees ofhospitals that can call up and speak to the mayor and governor.  TheWho's Who of America, those people. ''	   King knew about the union, and Foner was invited to meet withhim at the home of Stanley Levison, a New York businessman who wasa close adviser to King.  At that meeting, King offered to write aletter of support which the union widely circulated.  By 1962, whenthe union was lobbying to amend state laws to allow collectivebargaining for hospital workers, King called Gov.  NelsonRockefeller three times to urge his support. 	   King often visited with union members and officials, and hislast major speech in New York City was at a union rally the monthbefore he was killed.  In it, he boasted that he considered himself``a fellow 1199-er. 
 He talked about how peopleworked full-time jobs for part-time pay. 	   ``People are always talking about menial labor,'' he told theaudience.  ``But no labor is really menial unless you're not gettingadequate wages. ''	   Three and a half weeks later, he was dead. 	   The union he helped is now the city's largest, and itsheadquarters bears his name.  Not that Foner needs any reminders. He'll be at Saturday's rally, even if walking a block leaves himshort of breath. 	   ``Labor has to show it's really interested in people,'' he said. ``There are remarkable people around. 
'' NYT19980403. 0512  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:44:00 CHILDS AND WARD STRUGGLING AT WORST POSSIBLE TIME NEW YORK _ It was easier for Chris Childs to be with the Netstwo years ago.  Less pressure, no hype.  Having freedom fromexpectation meant wowing everyone as a playmaking guard with afreewheeling style. 	   He lost his anonymity that summer when he signed a $24 milliondeal with the Knicks.  He went just across the river, but to anotherworld, as a high-profile point guard.  He has been adjusting eversince. 	   This injury-riddled season, in which he went from starter tobackup, has been particularly difficult and increasingly dreadfulfor Childs.  In his last three games, Childs has made four of 17shots and committed seven turnovers in 68 minutes of playing time. 
 ``I'm not getting the ball to thebasket.  My leg is not hurting as much as it did before, so I've gotto get there.  I'm going to play my game on Saturday. ''	   If he does, his return to the Childs of old will take placeSaturday night at Continental Arena, where he was so comfortablewith the Nets.  As much as Childs has struggled as a Knick _ notclicking with either the Patrick Ewing-oriented offense or thecurrent one without the injured center _ he is only half of thepoint guard problem. 	   Charlie Ward, the starter, has also hit a season-low lull.  Attimes, he has been clutch in his shots and smart in his passes offpenetration.  But over the same three games that Childs' game hasworsened, Ward's shooting has been worse.  He has made one of 15shots and is 0 for 5 from 3-point range. 
 ``Charlie is aggressive and looks for otherguys.  We just want to make sure he maintains the right balance andtakes his own shot when he's open. 	   ``Chris has got to play through it and keep working. ''	   That means doing the extra shooting Van Gundy has been bangingthe drum for lately.  As a team, particularly in the backcourt overthe last week, the Knick players' shots have fallen hard on therim.  Now is not the time for an offensive swoon, not when theKnicks are trying to hold fast to a playoff position.  Teams likethe eighth-place Nets are in the chase for the Knicks' No.  7 spotin the Eastern Conference. 	   ``Before, we were in the favorite's position,'' said Van Gundy,whose team held a three-and-a-half-game lead over the Nets. 
 I think that's all changed. ''	   So much has changed since Childs was with the Nets.  With theKnicks, it is not so easy to be himself. 	   ``I was brought here for other aspects of my game; I've got toshow that,'' said Childs, who admits the ankle that he sprained sixweeks ago is not what is bothering him now.  ``I've been stagnate,not playing my game.  That is going to end on Saturday. ''	   REBOUNDS	   Patrick Ewing continued to go through shooting drills Friday atpractice and ran through some plays with the team.  A team officialsaid Thursday night that Ewing is expected to return to afull-contact practice within 10 days, the final step for a returnbefore the playoffs.  ``I expect he'll practice before the end ofthe season at some point,'' Jeff Van Gundy said Friday beforedescribing Ewing's workout. 
If he's able to, contact would be the next step.  It would be a hugestep. ''	   Barring a setback to his surgically repaired shooting wrist,Ewing could be in uniform for one of the Knicks' finalregular-season games.  Ewing's touch was in full view before theKnicks' 81-70 victory over the Clippers on Thursday, when he shot10- to 18-foot jumpers for about half an hour and lookedsurprisingly smooth in his release.  NYT19980403. 0513  NEWS STORY  04/03/1998 22:45:00 AS YANKEES BEGIN 0-2, IT'S THEIR OWN FAULT OAKLAND, Calif.  _ Joe Torre's Yankee cap was tilted back high onhis forehead after Thursday night's 10-2 loss to the Angels inAnaheim, a dumbfounded expression overwhelming his face.  With abeer in his hand, he could have been a dead ringer for WalterMatthau as the manager of the Bad News Bears. 	   ``They kicked our rears,'' Torre said. 
''	   The Yankees can blame El Nino.  They can blame the AmericanLeague schedule.  They can blame themselves.  Regardless, theyarrived here Friday after having lost the first two games of aseason of high hopes with a toothless offensive attack andsometimes brainless play on defense. 	   ``It was an ugly game,'' said David Cone, who makes his firststart Saturday against Oakland.  ``An ugly way to lose; it wasembarrassing.  It was the type of game that you hope could be awake-up call. 	   ``Nonetheless, I still like this team. ''	   Derek Jeter, the shortstop, reiterated what Torre had mentioned,that the Yankees' preparation was affected by the El Nino-drivenrain last weekend in San Diego, all the hours of batting andinfield practice washed away. 
	   The 1997 opener was indoors, in Seattle.  The Yankees went 4-4 onthat first West Coast swing, while Baltimore _ which always opensat Camden Yards _ jumped ahead in the standing.  Every trip to theWest Coast in recent years has challenged the Yankees, who are64-83 on this side of the country in the 1990s. 	   Rain, West Coast, whatever, the Yankees are 0-2.  Ramiro Mendoza,their least effective pitcher in spring training, started Fridaynight against the Athletics. 	   In Thursday's defeat, there were no errors charged to theYankees.  But they played miserably, making more mistakes in onegame than in the final two weeks of spring training. 	   In the first inning, the Yankees threatened.  Jeter singled andPaul O'Neill walked with one out. 
 Jeter, running on contact, wasalmost at third and was easily doubled off second base to end theinning. 	   Dismissing the unthinkable _ that Jeter forgot the number ofouts _ Torre said he thought Williams' liner was going to land fora hit.  Jeter said he did, too. 	   ``I was thinking `score,' even though it was hit hard, and I wastrying to get a good jump,'' Jeter said.  ``Edmonds caught it likehe was camped under a fly ball. ''	   Anaheim scored three runs in the fourth inning against DavidWells, but if the Yankee infielders had made the plays, the damagecould have been limited to one run.  One out into the inning, DaveHollins hammered a solo homer.  Then Tim Salmon chopped a ball intothe shortstop hole, where Jeter fielded it and fired toward first. The throw skipped in front of first baseman Tino Martinez, who wasunable to scoop the ball cleanly. 
	   After Wells walked Cecil Fielder, the swift Garret Andersonslapped a half-speed grounder up the middle.  The chances of aninning-ending double play were marginal, but any shot was lost whenJeter fumbled the bouncer and settled for the out at first.  Insteadof being out of the inning, Wells had to pitch to Phil Nevin withtwo runners on and two out, and he gave up a two-run double. 	   ``That was tough,'' Jeter said of Anderson's ball.  ``He hit itslow. ''	   But Wells accepted his share of the blame for the three runs; hethrew a fastball with no balls and two strikes to Hollins for thehome run and a hanging curveball for Nevin's double. 	   Darryl Strawberry and Williams played alongside each other inspring training without having one ball hit equidistant betweenthem.  This occurred twice Thursday, with Strawberry catching thefirst ball and dropping the second, as he avoided collisions withWilliams.  Strawberry's second play was ruled a triple by GaryDiSarcina, setting up a two-run seventh. 
Brosius glanced at Carlos Garcia, the runner at third, beforelooking to second; Brosius had forgotten that second baseman ChuckKnoblauch would not be covering the base with the infield in.  SoBrosius quickly threw to first.  Garcia noted Brosius' indecisionand scored. 	   As the infielders reset for the next hitter, Brosius tapped hischest, acknowledging his mistake. 	   Later, Strawberry overthrew a cutoff man. 	   ``Hopefully, we got all the garbage out of the way,'' saidTorre, for one night the manager of the bad news Yankees. 	   INSIDE PITCH	   Chili Davis, the designated hitter, left Thursday night's gameafter his third at-bat with what Joe Torre described as pain in hisright foot.  ``His foot was a little numb,'' Torre said.  ``He hadhis shoe tied a little too tight. 
. .  The Yankees went 1 for 16with runners in scoring position in the first two games . . .  ChuckKnoblauch has reached base in six of his nine plate appearances . . . Orlando Hernandez, the right-hander who defected from Cuba, pitchedtwo solid innings in a simulated game against Class A players inTampa, Fla. 
. 
 NYT19980407. 0213  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 17:18:00 SUSAN SPICER, THE QUIET STAR OF NEW ORLEANS NEW ORLEANS _ In a town famous for its flamboyance, Susan Spiceris the city's stealth chef.  Unlike Emeril Legasse or Justin Wilson,she speaks softly, has no desire to build a restaurant empire andserves neither Cajun nor Creole food. 	   But if she is quiet and self-deprecating, the food at herrestaurant, Bayona, shines, and she is widely regarded as one ofthe cooking luminaries of New Orleans, and of the nation as well,as she is routinely cited in surveys of America's best chefs.  Herintimate restaurant in the French Quarter is packed nightly withlocals as well as tourists who appreciate her uncluttered cooking,which relies on the goodness of the ingredients and her captivatingapproach. 	   Her food reflects her wide-ranging interests: She has lived inFrance and Holland, and has traveled throughout most of theMediterranean and the United States.  From her mother, who isDanish, she learned variety. 	   ``She was as likely to serve fried chicken as curry,'' Ms. Spicer said.  But some of Ms. 
 She uses oysters to stuff roasted quail, and encrustsrabbit with pecans and serves it with a sauce made from Cajun tassoham.  Her Thai spicy shrimp, on the other hand, is brilliantlyseasoned and authentically Thai, with beautifully balanced flavors. The presentations are simple and straightforward.  No towers of foodand other show-off architecture. 	   Success came quickly to Ms.  Spicer when she opened her ownrestaurant in 1990, but it was not before years of casting aboutfor a career.  Ms.  Spicer, 45, considers herself a late bloomer.  Sheclaims to have failed at everything else she tried. 
 ``SoI could be considered a change-of-career person if I had ever had acareer.  I was a child of the 60s, and I was restless.  I startedcooking at 26, but I was always looking for a creative outlet. Nothing came easy. ''	   She began her culinary career in 1979 by apprenticing herself toa French chef in New Orleans.  Then she spent four months working atall the stations in a Parisian restaurant kitchen, knowing thatwhen she returned to New Orleans her boss expected her to becomethe chef of a restaurant he was opening.  She said she didn't feelshe was qualified, but the decision was out of her hands. 	   ``Being a chef when I felt I wasn't ready was prettystressful,'' she said.  ``Everyone I hired I thought knew more thanI did. 
 So I left andwent back to Europe and worked here and there. ''	   She returned to New Orleans a year later and, in 1986, was theopening chef at the Bistro in the Maison de Ville hotel, where shestayed until Bayona became a reality.  It was an immediate success,turning a profit within six months. 	   Even though Bayona has a national reputation among thecognoscenti, and even though she feels ``pretty confident'' aboutwhat she is doing, Ms.  Spicer thinks she has a long way to go. 	   ``Bayona is still evolving,'' she said, on a recent afternoon asshe cooked some of her favorite dishes in the cooking-schoolkitchen of her shop, which she recently opened.  ``You have to stayfresh.  I want to keep it that way.  I don't think I have enoughenergy to inject into five different projects. 
 ``One of the thingsI'm good at is putting flavors together,'' she said.  ``I have goodinstincts about food and wine, probably from being adventurous at avery young age.  I can sit in my office and put a menu together.  Butin terms of technique, I would like to be more confident. ''	   Ms.  Spicer, who has dark blond hair and intense pale blue eyes,describes herself as shy, but she does not go unnoticed: peoplealways remember her because of the band she wears across herforehead when she cooks.  Except, of course, in the presence of areporter, when the headband moves to the back of her hair, and anyleftover hippie traits are disguised. 	   Those who have seen her conduct a cooking class describe her aslively and funny, sharing intimate secrets of her private life,talking about her younger boyfriend, for example, who is also themanager of her shop.  She describes this mingling of her personaland professional lives as ``a pretty dangerous thing to do,''adding in an offhanded manner that she is ``past the point ofworrying about getting married. 
 Spicer came to cooking in spite of her father and because ofher mother.  ``My dad had really high hopes for me scholastically,''she said.  ``I did well in school.  I skipped a grade when I was akid, and he wanted me to be some sort of engineer, something lessearthy than a cook.  I wanted to go to the Culinary Institute ofAmerica, but he didn't want to pay for it. ''	   Despite the lack of the architectural plates that are so invogue today, despite the fact that the food is neither Cajun norCreole and that the chef does not have a television cooking series,not even a cookbook, Ms.  Spicer's patrons have come to trust her. ``I think we keep it interesting enough without intimidatingpeople,'' she said. 	   Ms. 
: clean and spare.  The shop is takingoff, even though its location makes Ms.  Spicer an urban pioneer. Spice Inc.  opened late last year in a warehouse district on its wayto gentrification.  The grungy exterior of the historic Cotton MillBuilding provides no clue to her airy shop on the first floor. 	   Sunlight streams in through floor-to-ceiling windows.  Theloft-like decor _ exposed metal pipes, light woods, a paintedcement floor _ provides the background for enticing displays ofprepared foods like sesame-crusted tuna, Thai green curry chickenand Shorty's macaroni and cheese as well as an ample selection offruits, vegetables and cheeses.  The shop makes its ownEuropean-style bread; it is the first to do so in New Orleans, Ms. 
	   Spice could not look more different from Bayona, which is in theheart of the French Quarter in a 200-year-old Creole cottage withFrench jalousie doors.  The restaurant has three intimate diningrooms, with ceiling fans, terra-cotta walls, crisp white linens andlighting that makes everyone look good.  A glassed-in garden roomlooks out on an incredibly romantic brick-walled garden.  Yet, forall its charm, it is as understated as the owner. 	   ``I'm not looking to provoke,'' Ms.  Spicer said.  ``I'm not anenvelope-pusher.  I'm glad there are people who do that, butessentially I just want it to taste good. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE. 
	   1.  Wash and dry duck breasts.  Mix together salt, pepper, thymeand rosemary.  Sprinkle the mixture over the skin side of thebreasts, and refrigerate for several hours or let stand about {hour before cooking. 	   2.  Make the glaze: combine the shallots, vinegar and stock in asmall pot and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, and simmer until liquidis reduced to about a cup.  Whisk in the pepper jelly, and then thebutter.  Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
 Add more vinegar if sauce is too sweet. 	   3.  Grill or saute skin-side down for about 6 minutes; then turnand cook about 2 minutes longer, depending on how rare you want thebreasts.  Remove from heat; let stand about 2 minutes; then, sliceon the diagonal into 5 or 6 pieces and arrange on plate, skin sideup.  Spoon glaze over the top. 	   Yield: 8 servings. 	   SMOTHERED GREENS	   Time: 20 minutes 2 tablespoons unsalted butter	   2 tablespoons olive oil	   2 medium onions, chopped	   12 cups assorted greens _ like mustard, broccoli rape, collard,kale, turnip _ stemmed, washed and chopped	   Chicken stock, if needed	   4 teaspoons cider vinegar	   Salt and freshly ground black pepper	   Hot sauce, optional. 	   1.  In a large nonstick saute pan, melt the butter with the oil. 
	   2.  Stir in the assorted greens, and cook over medium-high heat,until the vegetables are wilted and tender, about 8 to 10 minutes. If mixture becomes dry, add a little chicken stock. 	   3.  Stir in the vinegar, and season with salt and pepper and hotsauce, if desired. 	   Yield: 4 servings. 	   SWEET POTATO PUREE	   Time: 1 hour 5 minutes 2 pounds sweet potatoes or yams	   1{ tablespoons unsalted butter	   1{ tablespoons molasses or honey	   [ teaspoon grated nutmeg. 	   1.  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 
	   2.  Cool slightly, remove skins and mash with butter, molassesand nutmeg.  Heat through, on top of the stove or in a microwaveoven, and serve. 	   Yield: 4 servings. 	   STRAWBERRIES WITH PINK PEPPERCORN SAUCE	   Time: 20 minutes \ cup sugar	   2 tablespoons Cognac	   1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar	   1 teaspoon concentrated pomegranate juice or molasses	   1 teaspoon pink peppercorns, lightly crushed	   1 pint strawberries, washed and stemmed (1 cup diced, the restsliced). 	   1.  Place the sugar in a small pot with 1 tablespoon water.  Stirto dissolve.  Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, and simmeruntil a deep caramel color. 
	   2.  Remove from heat, and carefully pour in the Cognac andvinegar.  Put back on low heat and swirl mixture to dissolvecaramel.  Remove from heat and stir in the pomegranate juice or themolasses, the peppercorns and the diced strawberries, and cook overlow heat for one minute.  The sauce will be thick and syrupy. 	   3.  Cool, and carefully stir in remaining strawberries.  Serveover vanilla ice cream, mascarpone or panna cotta. 	   Yield: 4 servings. 
0215  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 17:18:00 FOR THE LAST `SEINFELD,' FAMILY ONLY LOS ANGELES _ The entertainment industry thrives on a thinlydisguised hierarchy of exclusivity.  Even well-known producers anddirectors fight ferociously _ through their agents or assistants,of course _ for tickets to major events.  Still, ``Seinfeld,'' NBC'senormously successful sitcom and cultural icon, has trumped thecrowd.  The taping of the final segment of the final episode of theshow, which is shutting down after nine years, is shrouded in densesecrecy and is proving all but impossible to get into. 	   ``I've gotten 89 million calls about it,'' said Alan Horn, thechairman of Castle Rock Entertainment, the company that produces``Seinfeld. '' ``Shameless? Yes, people are shameless about tryingto get in.  But it's just a family affair, you know, people who'vebeen connected to the show and families. '' Horn said he was takinghis wife, his two children and another relative. 	   About 250 people have been invited to watch the final taping onWednesday, all of them connected in some way to the show or itsstars: Jerry Seinfeld, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Jason Alexander andMichael Richards. 
 ``Nobody outside the immediate show isgoing to be allowed in. ''	   Adding to the aura of secrecy, no scripts are being circulated. Indeed, those who have received scripts have had to signconfidentiality agreements, Horn said.  No one involved would evendiscuss the contents of the episode, which is to be broadcast onMay 14.  The show is expected to attract one of the largesttelevision audiences ever.  As a result, NBC has reportedly soldadvertising at $2 million for a 30-second spot; that is roughlyfour times the show's usual rate. 	   Security will be extremely tight at Wednesday's taping, andalready the producers are bracing for a heavy cordon of televisioncameras and news crews at the gates of the studio, CBS StudioCenter in Studio City. 	   Since the last ``Seinfeld'' episode will be an hour long (one ofthe few bits of information the people involved would disclose), itis being taped over several nights, not the one night typical formost shows.  The script has been written by Larry David, who createdthe show with Jerry Seinfeld but left two years ago to work onmovies and other projects. 
	   But it is not even clear exactly what the audience will see onWednesday evening.  There have been rumors that the concludingmoments of the episode will be taped at another time.  There is onerumor that the select audience will be shown a tape of a decoyending, a fake intended to throw snoops off the track in caseanyone at the event discloses the story line.  (A whole fake scriptwas circulated on the Internet by an unknown author. )	   The television series, which, in a reflection of the timesproudly proclaims that it is a show about nothing, is enormouslypopular and a huge source of profits for NBC and Castle Rock.  Eventhough no new episodes will be produced after Wednesday,``Seinfeld'' is already proving a great success in syndication. 	   The show, at 9 p. m.  on Thursdays, has been a mainstay of one ofthe most popular nights on network television. 
	   But for one night at least, that will be a distant thought. Wednesday night will be given to entertainment and the braggingrights of those who will be able to claim they saw it firsthand.  NYT19980407. 0220  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 17:30:00 `THE PLAYERS CLUB': PREDICTABLE SOAP	   The rapper Ice Cube makes his directorial debut with ``ThePlayers Club,'' a hearty throwback to the formula behind '70sblaxploitation films: sex, violence, cash, trash and flash.  Set inwhat is euphemistically called ``a gentleman's club,'' itconstructs a 100 percent predictable soap opera around clean-cutDiana Armstrong (LisaRaye), who is a college student and singlemom.  ``All this dancin', and finals was just around the corner!''she complains, articulating the film's central dilemma: Diana iswholesome and nice, but she has to strut her stuff at the club forfiscal reasons.  She uses Diamond as her nom de strip. 	   In a film that sees its biggest moral distinction betweendancing at the club and moonlighting at bachelor parties, songtitles on the soundtrack include ``Shake Watcha Mama Gave Ya,''``Show Me da Money,'' ``Whores in the House,'' ``We Be Clubbin'''and ``You Know I'm a Ho. '' And yet for all its leering this is assoapy a film as ``Soul Food,'' defending the empowering benefits ofexotic dancing yet worrying about good girls gone wrong. 
	   Ice Cube, who plays a minor heavy and flaunts his trademarkscowl, also throws in some broad humor, as when Diamond's nemesis(Chrystale Wilson) shows up at a bachelor party full of whitepolicemen and starts spanking them in honor of Rodney King.  Campymoments and a luridly colorful look (with cinematography by MalikSayeed) may give this no-flair, no-frills B movie a healthy videoafterlife some day.  There's something to be said for a cautionarytale in which one chastened ex-stripper winds up selling shoes. 	   PRODUCTION NOTES:	   `THE PLAYERS CLUB'	   Written and directed by Ice Cube; director of photography, MalikSayeed; edited by Suzanne Hines; music by Hidden Faces; productiondesigner, Dina Lipton; produced by Carl Craig and PatriciaCharbonnet; released by New Line Cinema.  Running time: 103 minutes. This film is rated R (under 17 requires accompanying parent oradult guardian).  It includes much profanity, partial nudity andsuggestive situations. 	   With: Bernie Mac (Dollar Bill), Monica Calhoun (Ebony), JamieFoxx (Blue), A. J. 
C. ), Larry McCoy (St.  Louis), Ronn Riser (Professor Mills), DickAnthony Williams (Mr.  Armstrong), Badja Djola (the Doctor), TinyLister (XL) and LisaRaye (Diamond).  NYT19980407. 0221  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 17:32:00 `DREAMER': MIRROR IMAGE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING Charles Johnson, whose last novel, ``Middle Passage'' was ahistorical reconstruction of slavery, has turned to more recenthistory in ``Dreamer,'' an imagined account of the last days of theRev.  Dr.  Martin Luther King Jr.  They are days filled with evilpremonitions of the tragedy that was to strike when King wasassassinated in Memphis, Tenn. 
	   The story shifts from King's interior monologues to thereflections of Johnson's principal narrator, a shy, self-conscious24-year-old acolyte of King named Matthew Bishop who, in the wordsof the woman he loves, talks like a thesaurus.  One of Johnson'sthemes is Matthew's growth from a kind of intellectually precociouslate adolescence to full manhood; indeed, one suspects that Matthewis modeled on Johnson's youthful self. 	   But Johnson's narrative is aimed principally at the appearanceof an entirely fictional character, Chaym Smith, a global wandererand striver after redemption who bears an uncanny physicalresemblance to King. 	   As a result, Chaym earns a role as a stand-in for King at a timewhen his life was clearly in danger.  But Chaym's presence givesJohnson's novel the ambiguous, Conradian eeriness of all storiesabout the doppelganger, the double, the mirror image and theopposite, the reminder of the invisible person who lies behind themask. 	   These themes are rich, and they are developed by Johnson withhis usual stylishness.  Chaym has lived his life shadowed by King'sfame and his status as a kind of living saint.  In Johnson's vision,that experience has made him both jealous and driven, admiring andvengeful. 	   Johnson reminds us that King was a minister as well as a leaderof the struggle for black rights, and ``Dreamer'' is full oftheological reflections. 
	   ``That was my stuff,'' Chaym tells Matthew after the two of themhave listened to King speak at a church.  ``Not things I've eversaid, but stuff I've felt.  Like my spirit is trapped in his, whichis so much clearer and bigger and cleaner. ''	   In other words, there are numerous folds to Johnson'spsychological intrigue.  Chaym himself is a powerful character,eloquently irascible, morally deep. 	   And yet ``Dreamer'' is not a complete success, despite theconsistently high quality of Johnson's writing.  In the endespecially, Johnson seems to lose control of his doppelgangertheme.  Instead, ``Dreamer'' turns to a muddled theme of betrayalinvolving an unlikely pair of federal agents and Chaym. 	   The betrayal seems, at least by virtue of its timing, linked toKing's assassination, though this is far from clear. 
	   His recourse to a kind of unresolved and implausible mysteryleaves the reader with a sense of incompleteness, anticlimax.  Andwhile that might be an intentional reflection of the deeperincompleteness of real life, a lesson in the unresolvability ofthings does not seem to have been Johnson's purpose. 	   (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   The action of ``Dreamers'' takes place mostly in Chicago, whereKing, having achieved major victories in the South, has arrived tocampaign against Northern forms of racial discrimination. 	   Johnson's King is tired and tearful and assailed by doubts.  Hewonders in particular if he has overestimated the spiritualcapacity of blacks and whites alike, whether they are capable ofunderstanding his ``deeper, esoteric message about freedom,''namely that ``to gain the dizzying heights of the mountaintop, theself's baggage had to be abandoned in the valley. ''	   Chaym Smith arrives at King's door in the midst of theseruminations.  ``He was the kind of Negro the movement had for yearskept away from the world's cameras,'' Matthew says of Chaym'sappearance: ``sullen, ill-kept, the very embodiment of the blues. ''	   Chaym volunteers to be King's stand-in, a role he has beenunhappily playing most of his life anyway.  When King refuses, Chaymtells him, ``I figure if I'm catchin' hell 'cause of you, I might'swell catch it for you instead. 
	   The story unfolds against a background of increasing urbanviolence and challenges to King from younger, more militant blackswithin the ranks.  ``Dreamer'' in this sense takes on a time-capsuleflavor. 	   This is sometimes contrived, for example, when Amy and Matthewfind themselves berated as ``house niggers'' by an ex-con namedYahya Zubena who has found poetry and black power in prison.  Butthe main character remains Chaym, whose homophonic resemblance toCain is made explicit as Johnson returns again and again to hisbiblical theme. 	   ``I began to see _ as if a veil had lifted _ the tortured shadowof Cain everywhere, within me and without, his many culturalreincarnations parading through my mind like frames projected on acyclorama,'' Matthew tells us. 	   ``It was said that Western man himself was Cain, cursed with theburden of restlessness and the endless quest for selfhood.  Downthrough the centuries, his name was spelled differently indifferent times.  Caym, Kaym, even Chaym, were etymologicalvariations on it. ''	   So Chaym, King's double, is Cain, but he is everyman as well,within and without. 
 Soon after, King is assassinated. 	   Johnson seems to be saying something about the collectivefailure to climb to the mountaintop as well as collectiveresponsibility for King's death.  That is no doubt true, but it isalso a nostrum, a commonplace sort of wisdom.  And it is unmooredfrom the deeply personal and individual mystery that Chaympresented at the outset. 	   PUBLICATION NOTES:	   `DREAMER'	   A Novel	   By Charles Johnson 237 pages.  Scribner.  $23.  NYT19980407. 0223  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 17:56:00 `MEISTERSINGER VON NURNBERG': IN NEED OF INSPIRATION NEW YORK _ When the Metropolitan Opera first presented the OttoSchenk production of Wagner's ``Meistersinger von Nurnberg'' in1993, Schenk's work, though conservative, was evocative andcolorful, and James Levine's conducting was spacious and nuanced. 
	   ``Die Meistersinger'' returned on Monday night.  The originalreason for bringing it back was that the great bass James Morriswas planning to sing his first Hans Sachs, one of opera's longestroles, Wagner's wise shoemaker, a widower in medieval Nurnberg andthe most beloved member of the town's guild of master singers. 	   But Morris withdrew last fall, and the Met had to come up fastwith a replacement.  In James Johnson, an American bass making hishouse debut, the company had a creditable Sachs.  Moreover, Levine'sintricate and organic work seemed even deeper this time around.  Theorchestra playing on Monday positively glowed. 	   Yet onstage there was a sense of a production thrown togetherand lacking inspiration, and the likely cause was the jokey andintrusively busy stage direction of David McClintock.  ``DieMeistersinger'' is a comedy, but a tender, insightful and, attimes, troubling comedy, not the antic fest it sometimes seemedhere. 	   Take, for example, the depiction of Beckmesser, the town clerk. 
His dream of marrying Eva, the daughter of his fellow master singerPogner, by winning the guild's annual song contest, and hisscheming to outmaneuver Sachs show him to be hapless, not nasty orstupid. 	   Hans-Joachim Ketelsen, the German baritone, sang the rolesplendidly but was not helped by the stage direction.  When hisnighttime serenade to Eva is mischievously interrupted by Sachs'cobbling, a pouting Beckmesser struts about the street in circles,his hands linked behind his back, a cartoonish and cliched idea. The aches and pains he suffers from the town brawl set off by hisserenading were inanely overacted. 	   Aside from the directorial slips, there were some vocal rewards,especially from the musicianly tenor Ben Heppner, who had atriumphant evening reprising the daunting role of the young knightWalther.  His voice sounded rested, free and thrilling.  Johnson hasa sturdy though not exceptional voice, and stamina.  He could haveprojected more of Sachs' dignity had he not been directed to actlike a bully, shoving Beckmesser around at will, and flinging Evaat Walther (three times!), which the fatherly Sachs would never do. 	   Eva Johansson, a Danish soprano making her Met debut, made alovely Eva, but the girlishness of her characterization was tooaggressively projected, and at full volume her voice tended to turnharsh and wobbly. 
 But his voice was hard pressedin places.  Wendy White was sympathetic as Magdalene, and Hans Sotinwas a stentorian Pogner. 	   The amassed sound of the Met chorus greeting Sachs in the finalscene will not be easily forgotten.  If only the antics of the stagedirection could be cleaned up.  It almost makes you long for RobertWilson's glacial staging of ``Lohengrin. '' NYT19980407. 0224  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 17:57:00 CREATING `THE LAST BOOK' TO HOLD ALL THE OTHERS CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  _ In the Media Laboratory at the MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, they are working on a project they call``the last book. ''	   This may sound ominous to book lovers. 
 Looking at a computer meansreading an electronic screen, which is decidedly not the way mostpeople want to read a book, particularly the last one. 	   Reading text on a computer screen is confining and tiresome.  Youcan't see where you are or how far you have to go.  You can't leafthrough the pages to compare parts of the text or to see what youreye finds at random.  You can't comfortably carry a computer screenaround with you, to bed, to the beach or to the bathroom. 	   You can't collect computer screens, or bind them beautifully invellum, or display them on shelves in the spirit that the Englishnovelist Anthony Powell evoked when he titled one of his volumes``Books Do Furnish a Room. ''	   But hold everything! The news is far from grim.  The book of thefuture described to me on a visit to the Media Lab is really abook, just like ``Goodnight Moon,'' ``Paradise Lost'' or theGutenberg Bible.  It has a binding that could be made of leather ifyou wanted, and hundreds of pages you can turn one at a time orriffle through. 
	   The key to this book is something called electronic ink, ore-ink, which can be applied to the page from within instead of by apress.  Being developed by Joseph Jacobson, an assistant professorat MIT, with the backing of Things That Think and News in theFuture, two business consortia of some 75 companies, this e-inkconsists of microscopic spheres, each about 40 microns in diameter,or about half the thickness of a piece of paper.  Each sphere ishalf black and half white.  These spheres can be applied by themillions to paper and then flipped over electronically to eithertheir black sides or their white sides to produce what looks like atraditional printed page. 	   As envisioned at the Media Lab, the book pages will each havefine wires carrying electricity to flip the dots in the directionof a computer concealed in the book binding.  The user will scrollthrough a list of book titles displayed on the book's spine.  If theuser selects ``Ulysses,'' the computer will make the text appear onthe book's pages by flipping the appropriate spheres to their blackor white sides. 	   As the capacity of the book's memory grows, whole libraries maybe installed.  Jacobson foresees being able to store the entire U. 
Library of Congress, whose holdings number more than 17 millionvolumes.  A user might also be able to assemble a book from multiplesources to fit special needs.  Illustrations might be animated. E-ink could also make it possible to receive broadcasts thattypeset themselves to create instant newspaper. 	   Yet the book would still have the familiar advantages of a book,Jacobson says.  You could unplug its power and carry it anywhere. The display would be designed to sense the presence of a stylus, orpen, so that you could underline or write notes on it.  You mighteven be able to dogear the book. 	   Jacobson greatly admires the traditional book. 
 Books have several hundredsimultaneous paper-thin, flexible displays.  They boot instantly. They run on very low power at a very low cost. ''	   (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   Every book ever published in a single volume? The mind bogglesand a dozen questions form.  Will this really happen? How soon couldthe last book be available? ``A prototype with just a few pagescould be put together in two to three years, with one of 400 pagestaking a year or two longer,'' Jacobson said. 	   (It should be pointed out that two years ago, in a descriptionof his project published by the Media Lab, Jacobson stated that aprototype would be available in ``about two years,'' meaning 1998. What I actually saw at the Media Lab did not approach even onepage. )	   ``We have already demonstrated the fundamental new parts neededto make it,'' Jacobson continued.  ``Since there are many differentprojects that can be enabled by this underpinning technology,exactly when it will be combined to form a book is not yet clear. 
''	   How much will it cost then? Jacobson says the volume willprobably retail for $2 to $4 per reusable page, or $500 to $1,000for a book that is every book, although he is working on ways toreduce costs even further.  ``It would be nice to have a cost so lowthat you could lose the book without worrying about it too much,''he added.  ``I believe that will be possible. ''	   What about the cost of the contents? Books in the public domaincould be downloaded for nothing, Jacobson says.  For new works andbooks still in copyright, a system of royalties could be set up inwhich texts would be encrypted and readers would buy the accesscode by Internet, phone or wireless transaction. 	   Some questions remain unanswered.  What are the implications forthe publishing industry? Already any writer can post a book on theInternet.  But books will still need to be edited and promoted.  Whatabout libraries? Bookstores? Remainders? Used books? Firsteditions? Rare books? Copies inscribed by the author? Autographingparties? What, in heaven's name, is to become of the dearly belovedbook borrower?	   Will books no longer furnish a room? It looks as if they won't,unless, like me, you will still insist on having certain titles onthe shelf, to remind you of their existence and your promise toyourself to read them some day. 
 Or maybe resort to displaying those Potemkin villages ofbooks on our shelves, rows and rows of our favorite titles incolors that match the furniture and the pets. 	   Just one of them will be real and removable from the shelf.  Itwill contain not hollowed-out pages with a gun or a whisky flask orcash or diamonds, but a treasure far greater: at the touch of abutton, any book ever written.  And when it is removed, familymembers will be free to ask a question that might once havereflected a certain benightedness: ``Hey!'' they'll be able to cryout.  ``Who's using the book?'' NYT19980407. 0236  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 18:18:00 HEAVY RAIN IN THE PLAINS	   Radar estimates of rainfall over eastern Nebraska and southernIowa exceeded 5 inches on Tuesday as an intense low-pressure systemstalled over the middle Mississippi Valley.  This disturbance willslowly move east Wednesday as a new center of low pressure formsfarther to the south in western Tennessee.  Rain will taper offacross the Middle West, but drizzle and low clouds will persist inthe central and northern Plains. 	   A wedge of cool air will occupy the Northeast as clouds andlight showers move into southern New England ahead of a warm front. 
 Some sunshine along with breezes from thesouthwest will bring very mild air to the Middle Atlantic region. 	   Thunderstorms will form into a cluster over the interiorSoutheast as a jet stream disturbance interacts with very humid airmoving inland from the Gulf of Mexico.  Hail and damagingstraight-line winds are possible with a few of the storms.  A coldfront pushing eastward across the lower Mississippi Valley will befollowed by sunny and pleasantly warm weather in the southernPlains. 	   Cool, moist air will cover most of the Rockies and PacificStates as jet stream disturbances move steadily east from the NorthPacific.  Snow levels will decrease a few hundred feet in theCascades.  Patches of rain will dampen northern California andwestern Oregon as low pressure moves slowly inland. 	   The Southwest will be sunny and a bit warmer, but clouds willarrive later in the day. 	   Focus: Capital Snow	   A tenth of an inch of snow fell at Ronald Reagan WashingtonInternational Airport on Dec. 
 The modicum of snowmatched the mark set in the 1972-1973, which had held the exclusivetitle as the least snowiest winter of record.  Curiously, there were16 days with a trace of snow this season, compared to 12 days witha trace of snow in 1972-73.  The chances of a late spring snow inWashington are slim.  After April 15, there has been only oneoccurrence of measurable snow since weather records began in 1887.  NYT19980407. 0248  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 18:35:00 SMITHSONIAN CLOSES BOOK AND RECORD UNITS	   The Smithsonian Institution in Washington has shut down threedivisions producing books, records, and videos, most notably theSmithsonian Collection of Recordings, which has issued widelypraised albums of jazz and popular music. 	   Officials said on Tuesday that they hoped to continue offeringsome of the recordings but the announcement of the cutbacks,particularly of the recordings, were met with widespread alarm anddisappointment by scholars and collectors. 	   In a memo dated March 31, Smithsonian undersecretary ConstanceBerry Newman announced the closing of the three divisions and theloss of 10 jobs at the institution, which has 6,500 employeesoverall.  The memo's contents were reported on Tuesday by TheWashington Post. 
 Best known for recordingslike the ``Collection of Classic Jazz,'' which has sold more than amillion copies since 1973, the Smithsonian recordings have receivedtwo Grammy awards and been nominated for 11 others. 	   ``I think it's unwise, and it surprised me quite a bit,'' DanMorgenstern, director of the Institute of Jazz Studies at RutgersUniversity, said of the decision.  ``They had a certain cachet, anddid some very good things.  I can't believe the Smithsonian, whichis the closest thing we have in this country to a national museum,is so poverty stricken they can't keep this going. ''	   But officials at the Smithsonian said the closing of therecording division reflected problems with its distribution system,which relies largely on direct mail, more than discontent with itsmission.  They said they hoped to offer some recordings in thefuture if the operation could be made economically feasible. 	   ``What we eliminated was the current method for distributingthese recordings,'' said Robert Schelin, acting managing directorof Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian Productions, which oversees thethree divisions that were cut.  ``The curators and historians willstill be in place.  What we're really re-evaluating is themechanisms for producing and distributing this kind of work. 
	   The decision leaves intact the Smithsonian Institution Press,the main book publishing arm of the museum.  Smithsonian Books,which was closed, had 15 titles, mostly glossy illustrated books. Smithsonian Institution Press has 800 scholarly and generalinterest titles, which are primarily sold at bookstores and museumsrather than through direct mail. 	   All three of the divisions that are closing are part ofSmithsonian Press/Smithsonian Productions, which has lost $10. 8million over the last two years and is expecting a $2-million lossthis year, officials said.  The total Smithsonian budget is $552million. 	   The move does not entirely end the Smithsonian's role in therecording industry.  Folkways Recordings, which has distributed folkand archival recordings for more than a decade as part of theSmithsonian, remains. 	   Officials left open the possibility that the jazz, country andpop recordings done by the Smithsonian Collection of Recordingscould continue, perhaps under the imprint of the Folkways label. 
 Newman said an analysis would continue of thecontinuing operations to ``explore ways in which the disseminationof scholarly works through a recordings and a production programcan continue in some form. ''	   A Smithsonian Institution spokesman, Linda St.  Thomas said onTuesday that the Smithsonian would like to find a way to continuesome of the recording functions, but that it was too early to tellin what form and to what degree that might play out. 	   Officials said the decisions were made against the backdrop bothof the financial needs of the Smithsonian and the changes in themarketplace that have buffeted many direct-mail operations. 	   ``My understanding is that as the direct-mail environment haseroded overall for all businesses, those projects became more andmore difficult to sustain,'' said Peter Cannell, director of theSmithsonian Institution Press, the surviving publishing arm. 	   He said employees at the Smithsonian viewed the cutbacks withconflicting feelings. 	   ``It's a decision that is in some ways sorry to see,'' he said. ``But on the other hand, any business or institution has to be ableto change with the times, and that's what we're doing here. '' NYT19980407. 
	   ``I feel the hand of history upon our shoulders,'' Blair said onarriving at Hillsborough, a government residence south of Belfast,for a meeting with David Trimble, the Protestant unionist leaderwho raised the new obstacle on Tuesday morning. 	   ``It's right to try,'' Blair said.  ``I'm here to try. ''	   Although his office insisted that Blair had been scheduled toarrive in Belfast on Tuesday, it was believed here that his arrivalhad been moved up from Wednesday in response to the potential newcrisis. 	   Trimble said a set of proposals given to the negotiating partiesearly Tuesday was unacceptable, a rejection that was widely seen asa melodramatic tactic to take the initiative in peace talks. 	   But the tactic could backfire and push the talks to the brink ofa collapse, which would probably turn the melodrama into thetragedy of widespread violence by the main Catholic and Protestantguerrilla groups, which are now observing cease-fires.  Sectarianviolence has killed more than 3,200 people in the North since 1969. 	   The deadline for an agreement intended to end 800 years ofsectarian violence in Ireland has been set for midnight Thursday. And former U. 
 Sen.  George Mitchell, D-Maine, the chairman of thetalks, said Tuesday morning that the deadline would not be extendedand that his job was virtually over after nearly two years. 	   The prime minister arrived hours after the latest, and mostserious, obstacle to agreement was advanced by Trimble, the leaderof the Protestant Ulster Unionist Party. 	   Trimble said the proposals, which were put forward by Mitchelland have not been made public, were biased in favor of the twoCatholic parties, the mainstream Social Democratic Labor and SinnFein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army. 	   Blair sought to reassure Protestants by noting that it wasBritish and Irish policy that there will be no united Ireland _ theultimate goal of the IRA _ unless it is approved by a majority.  TheNorthern Ireland majority is likely to remain Protestant well intothe next century. 	   Once Trimble makes his own proposals in the next two days, thepredictable reaction would be rejection by Sinn Fein and possiblythe Social Democrats and a rush of last-ditch negotiations to get acompromise agreement by midnight Thursday. 	   (STORY CAN END HERE.  OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS)	   The Catholics would seek support from the Irish Republic's PrimeMinister Bertie Ahern, while Protestants look to Blair to argue forthem. 
 They alsowant a new cross-border North-South Council, with ministers fromNorthern Ireland and the Irish Republic, that would be authorizedto make binding decisions in the North's affairs.  Now, the IrishRepublic has only a marginal consultative role. 	   Protestants bristle at these demands, seeing them as a way forthe Catholics to create a united Ireland, free of British controland run from Dublin. 	   The Mitchell proposals are known to cover these new governmentbodies.  Protestants want weaker bodies that would be controlled bythe Protestant majority that would elected to the new assembly. 	   In a telephone call to Blair's London office, Trimble said, hesaid of the Mitchell proposals, ``Before contemplating alternateproposals, I wish to know from you and the Irish government if youare prepared to consider radically different measures. ''	   The principal Protestant complaint with the Irish government, asponsor of the talks with Britain, is that the Irish have refusedto specify how they would tone down Ireland's constitutional claimto sovereignty in the North. 	   Ahern, who was in Dublin on Tuesday for his mother's funeral,did not immediately comment on Trimble's rejection of the Mitchellproposals. 	   The rejection was partly motivated by Trimble's need to staveoff the vehement criticism by the Rev. 
	   As Trimble was stating his rejection, Paisley was haranguing himin television interviews as a traitor who was selling out toCatholic terrorists.  Trimble and Paisley compete for Protestantvotes in general elections.  In a new northern assembly, Trimblewould be a likely candidate for prime minister. 	   ``You can't negotiate by stunts,'' said Seamus Mallon, deputyleader of the Social Democrats.  ``This is no stunt,'' said JeffreyDonaldson, one of Trimble's Unionist Party allies.  ``This is forreal. '' NYT19980407. 0258  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 18:47:00 TREASURIES SHOW SLIGHT DECLINE NEW YORK _ The prices of Treasury securities were slightly loweron Tuesday in quiet trading, as some investors sold Treasuries tomake room for new supplies from issuers like the South Koreangovernment and Federal Loan Home Mortgage Corp. , known as FreddieMac. 
84 percent, from 5. 82 percent on Monday. 	   In its first international bond sale, Korea began selling $3billion of global bonds in a move that could have wide implicationsfor the country's financial institutions and corporations hoping totap the global debt market. 	   The sale could also serve as an indicator of investors' appetitefor the debt of other Asian nations hurt by the region's financialcrisis. 	   In the first of two parts, the government is selling $1 billionin five-year notes with an estimated yield of about 8. 99 percent,or 350 basis points more than a comparable Treasury, and $2 billionof 10-year notes at an estimated 9. 14 percent, or 362. 5 basispoints over Treasury.  A basis point is one hundredth of apercentage point. 
	   Meanwhile, in another big sale, Freddie Mac priced $5 billion ofa 10-year note through underwriters Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Co. , MerrillLynch &AMP; Co.  and Salomon Smith Barney, at a price to yield 5. 849percent.  Like the South Korean issue, it appears to have been asuccess.  The offering comes just one week after a $4-billion saleby the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae. 	   With yields on Treasury securities at low levels, strong demandfor these corporate and global issues came as no surprise.  Suchissues are attractive to those who do not expect further largegains in U. S. 
	   In the Treasury market, traders said they expected continuedsluggishness for the next few days, as the market may have risentoo much last week. 	   The Treasury itself was an active buyer Tuesday, purchasing $1. 4billion of coupon issues with maturities from April 1998 to March1999, lending some support to prices. 	   Bill Gamba, senior vice president and manager of bond trading atCowen &AMP; Co. , was struck by the low volume. 	   ``If the market were trading on Saturday and Sunday I couldn'timagine it being slower than this,'' he said.  ``There were manyplayers absent. ''	   Because the bond market will be closed for half of the sessionon Thursday and then closed for Good Friday, many players havealready given up for the week. 	   Gamba said he did not expect that the Treasury's $8-billionauction on Wednesday of 30-year inflation-indexed bonds would holdany surprises for the market. 
0271  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 18:55:00 THE HUMBLE PENNY WHISTLE FLIRTS WITH OVERKILL	   I used to love the sound of the penny whistle.  It's a well-nighperfect instrument: portable, cheap, and low-tech, with no movingparts.  It's easy to play yet capable of great subtlety; a skillfulplayer can make notes bend and quiver and sigh.  And it immediatelyinvokes a long and precious tradition.  The penny whistle and tinwhistle, with or without a mouthpiece, provide one of the primalsounds of Celtic music, plaintive in slow airs and dizzyinglynimble in dance tunes.  When a musician pulls a whistle out of apocket and joins in a melody, it's a surviving link to centuries ofhomemade music. 	   But now it is my regretful duty to propose a ban on pennywhistle use anywhere outside a Guinness-pulling pub, effectiveimmediately.  A sweet sound is on the verge of curdling, and it istime to save it from overexposure.  There won't be any immediatehardship. 
 Patrick's Day is well behind us, and ``My Heart WillGo On,'' the whistle-topped hit from the ``Titanic'' soundtrack,has been duly presented with its Oscar (and can look forward to aGrammy next year).  The ``Titanic'' album is berthed at No.  1, withCeline Dion's ``Let's Talk About Love'' at No.  2.  When I heard atin whistle tootling through a blues, ``Broken Hearted,'' on EricClapton's new album, ``Pilgrim,'' it suddenly became clear: thewhistle is becoming the trendy sonic accessory of the late 1990s. 	   This happens to instruments, and it's not a pretty process.  Ithappened to the sitar (and then the electric sitar), to the Cajunaccordion and to panpipes.  They are all now tainted by their abuseat the hands of everyone from hippie bands to horror movie auteurs. Rousted from their ethnic enclaves, the instruments' masters revelin their new-found prominence. 
	   At first the new sound is a novelty, an ear-catching break fromthe usual guitars and keyboards; it leaps out of a radio speaker. Then, in a matter of years or months, it's everywhere: first theimitative bands, then the soundtracks and commercials, in a processthat keeps speeding up.  As soon as they can retool, keyboardmanufacturers begin to include a pre-set simulation of the sound,so that the local Top 40 band can start inserting it into songs.  Bythen, the sound is forever associated with its pop moment, the wayreverbed guitar spells early-1960s surf music or staccatosynthesizers hark back to new-wave rock, circa 1979. 	   For years, the whistle hovered under the pop radar.  When VanMorrison sang with the whistle-toting Chieftains in 1988, he wassimply claiming his Irish heritage.  When Paul Simon put a whistlesolo in the middle of ``You Can Call Me Al'' on ``Graceland'' in1986, he was paying direct homage to South African kwela music,another penny whistle stronghold.  But there was no rush to latch onto the sound.  For nearly a decade, the whistle tootled on in easyobscurity. 
''Simultaneously, in quieter realms, New Age music latched on toCeltic music for its soothing, timeless drones and the gentle butpiquant tones of the traditional instruments.  As ethnicity wasbeing rediscovered worldwide, the Celts were well prepared. 	   James Horner's score for ``Titanic'' uses elements of both``Riverdance'' muscle and New Age sweetness to lend a Celtic veneerto its sweeping Romantic crescendos.  (Perhaps the Celtic connectionis that the Titanic was built in Belfast. ) And as the movie and itsscore became omnipresent, the innocent whistle turned intosomething else.  It has moved from the unassuming context of aceilidh, an Irish jam session, to sail above an orchestra and toparley with Ms.  Dion; it has become an implement of coercivetear-jerking.  No doubt other arrangers, even now, are planning touse it the same way. 	   TOO GOOD A SOUND TO LOSE, ULTIMATELY	   Banned or not, the whistle will have its time, then recede. 
'' Of course, thewhistle won't disappear from traditional Irish groups, and thethriving subgenre of Celtic New Age music isn't likely to rule itout either.  It's too good a sound to lose. 	   In the broader pop arena, meanwhile, the whistle will fade outof earshot, probably soon after it turns up in a commercial forsome deeply inappropriate product.  Producers will move on to thenext instrument: the elemental honk of the didgeridoo, perhaps, orthe mellow peal of the Indonesian trompong, a set of tuned gongs. 	   And then, in 15 to 20 years, some sample-happy producer will getthe bright idea of placing the clear, airy tone of the whistle intoa mix.  Someone else will notice it and add it to another track, andit will spread the way 1970s wah-wah blaxploitation guitars areshowing up all over the place.  Some people will remember the``Titanic'' boom as simple nostalgia or forgiven kitsch.  Certainchildren will note their parents growing all misty-eyed and laughor join them with a tinge of self-consciousness.  Hearing the soundof breath through tin, they will imagine not the green fields ofIreland, but the whistle's days in the big time, amplified andubiquitous, when a humble instrument was touched by destiny. 
0272  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 18:56:00 `LITTLE DIETER NEEDS TO FLY': SURVIVING MISERY OF TWO WARS NEW YORK _ Werner Herzog tells a real-life tall tale in ``LittleDieter Needs To Fly,'' a documentary that describes enoughbreakneck adventures for any action hero.  But the swashbuckler whois the film's subject, Dieter Dengler, mostly describes hisexploits from memory.  Now a garrulous extrovert living acomfortable life near San Francisco, he talks of extraordinaryearly hardship and of the drive that sustained him.  With a Germanchildhood seared by images of World War II, and with an Americanmilitary career that saw him shot down over Laos in 1966, he hasmany a hair-raising story to tell. 	   But as often happens in Herzog's haunting documentaries, themost interesting figure seems to be the one behind the camera. Though Dengler is a practiced raconteur and has his story amplyillustrated here, it is Herzog's occasional meditations on hissubject that linger. 	   ``As a child,'' the filmmaker says in voice-over, ``Dieter sawthings that made no earthly sense at all.  Germany had beentransformed into a dreamscape of the surreal. '' Starkly poeticimages of wartime destruction accompany that observation. 
''	   ``Little Dieter Needs to Fly,'' which opens on Wednesday at theFilm Forum, is one of the filmmaker's least exotic works, but itstraightforwardly presents Dengler's eventful history.  He speaks ofhaving, as a boy, torn wallpaper off bombed-out walls so that hismother could cook it, since there were nutrients in the glue.  Heshows the camera how, even now, memories of being in aprisoner-of-war camp lead him to keep hundreds of pounds ofemergency provisions hidden under his house, just in case. 	   Returning to Southeast Asia with a camera crew (Herzog enlistsvillagers and water buffalo to stand impassively before the cameraand provide atmosphere), Dengler describes his harrowingexperiences as a prisoner.  ``They were just always thinking ofsomething to do to me,'' he says of his captors, from whom heultimately made a highly dramatic escape. 	   Dengler illustrates how to open handcuffs with a piece of wire,tells of biting a snake in two, even shares a black-tie reuniondinner with the helicopter pilot who finally rescued him.  And inlight of his many ordeals, his pleasant chattiness begins to seemthe film's strangest aspect.  As Herzog puts it: ``He hides behindthe casual remark that this was the fun part of his life. ''	   PRODUCTION NOTES:	   `LITTLE DIETER NEEDS TO FLY'	   Produced and directed by Werner Herzog; director of photography,Peter Zeitlinger; edited by Rainer Standke, Glen Scantlebury, andJoe Bini; released by Werner Herzog Filmproduktion. 
 Running time: 80 minutes.  This film isnot rated. 	   With: Werner Herzog (Narrator) and Dieter Dengler (himself).  NYT19980407. 0289  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 19:13:00 YELTSIN STRIKES POSE OF POWER FOR HIS OPPONENTS MOSCOW _ In a meeting that was as much political theater assubstance, President Boris Yeltsin summoned his opponents to theKremlin Tuesday in an attempt to show that he has a steady grip onthe reins of power and to drum up support for his new primeminister. 	   The much ballyhooed political round table took place in theornate St.  Catherine Hall. 	   The president held center stage while Sergei Kiriyenko, theyouthful aide that Yeltsin picked to be prime minister, sat by hisside. 	   The television cameras captured Yeltsin as he served notice tohis critics that he had no intention of abandoning Kiriyenko. 
	   But the meeting itself was something less than definitive.  Afterthe two-hour session ended, the back-room negotiating over theKiriyenko nomination went on. 	   ``I think it was a purely cosmetic event,'' said Yevgeny Volk,the director of the Moscow office of the Heritage Foundation. ``What we are talking about is bargaining.  In tactical terms,Yeltsin conducted a round table so that the Communists andnationals could say their pressure on the government had beenanswered. ''	   Volk, however, expressed the dominant view in Moscow thatYeltsin would ultimately succeed in winning parliamentary approvalof Kiriyenko's appointment. 	   Indeed, the key question increasingly appears to be not whetherKiriyenko will be approved but what the cost will be in terms ofsymbolic or substantive concessions by Yeltsin in new appointmentsor programs. 	   To be sure, Yeltsin was not the only one striking poses. 	   Gennadi Zyuganov, the communist leader, declared after themeeting that the Communists would not back Kiriyenko's appointmentwhen his nomination comes before Parliament on Friday. 
 Many political analysts believethat the Communists are determined to appear resolute before anational day of protest scheduled for Thursday.  And Zyuganov wascareful not to exclude the possibility that the Communists mighteventually acquiesce in the nomination. 	   Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the nationalist leader who is best knownfor his clownish antics, said he would back Kiriyenko only on thecondition that he could pick some of the members of Yeltsin's newgovernment. 	   Alexander Shokhin, the parliamentary leader of Our Home IsRussia, the political party founded by ousted prime minister ViktorChernomyrdin, also suggested his party should influence thecomposition of Yeltsin's new team. 	   Grigory Yavlinsky of the liberal Yablocko Party was the mostadamant in the opposition to Kiriyenko.  He appears to becalculating that the influence of his Yablocko Party will increaseif he remains unambiguously in the opposition or if Kiriyenko fallsby the wayside. 	   The Parliament's first vote on the Kiriyenko nomination isexpected on Friday.  Even if the Parliament rebuffs Yeltsin, thepresident has indicated he will press again for the Parliament'sapproval and he has considerable leverage. 	   (STORY CAN END HERE. 
 Many parliamentary deputies are loathto compete in such early elections and prefer to hold on theirposts and privileges as long as possible. 	   But Tuesday's meeting was designed to avoid a confrontation. 	   During the session, Yeltsin said he had considered several otherchoices, including Yegor Stroyev, the head of the upper house ofparliament and Moscow major Yuri Luzhkov, before settling on the35-year-old Kiriyenko. 	   Yeltsin praised Kiriyenko's professionalism and said that hisnew government could include candidates from opposing factions. Kiriyenko is to propose a list over the next week of officials thatwould serve in the new government. 	   Yeltsin grandly declared that 1998 should be ``a year withoutconfrontation,'' overlooking the fact that he had not bothered toconsult the parliament of most of his own government before pickingKiriyenko and ordering his surprise government shake-up''	   ``I will not veto your decisions and you should abstain frombans,'' Yeltsin said.  ``Let's try to get along this way. '' NYT19980407. 0292  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 19:17:00 COMMENTARY: SHE GETS MAIL CHICAGO _ ``I'm in the middle of everything,'' said EppieLederer. 
 AsAnn Landers, Eppie Lederer has been the arbiter of Main StreetAmerican mores since 1955, dishing out advice seven days a week ina column that the Guinness Book of World Records says is the mostwidely syndicated in the world, with 90 million readers in some1,200 newspapers.  She receives 2,000 letters a day. 	   Eppie _ no one calls her anything else _ isn't slowing down asshe approaches 80 (on the Fourth of July).  I'd come to her palatialapartment above Lake Michigan to learn how she and her readers hadsurvived the Clinton sex scandals.  ``I have the pulse of thenation, so to speak,'' she said.  Dressed in red _ and speaking inthe firecracker Chicago newsroom rhythms of ``The Front Page'' _she might BE the pulse of the nation. 	   A Democrat, she has kept her readers' trust by never endorsingpoliticians _ or products or fads.  While Ronald Reagan and JimmyCarter appointed her to boards and Bill Clinton invited her to stayin the Lincoln Bedroom (``No money connected _ I gave himnothing!''), Eppie will vouch for the private life of just one ofthe many presidents she has known: ``Truman is the one I would beton _ that he was absolutely, totally faithful to Bess. ''	   As for the Clinton accusations and revelations: ``I didn't knowwhat I'd get from readers. 
 I have concludedthis is a very popular president.  They're saying it's not ourbusiness, and we don't care . . .  This is not just sophisticated NewYork and California.  This is Middle America.  My column appears in alot of small-town papers _ Des Moines; Muskegon; Tyler, Texas. ''	   Paula Jones? ``The readers knew who was prompting her, who gaveher the makeover.  They don't buy it. 
 They feelshe's a little long in the tooth to be chasing celebrities.  Sheisn't a teen-ager. '' Kenneth Starr? ``He failed.  He should go toPepperdine already. '' Linda Tripp? ``She is the current villainess,I tell you.  I've had absolutely no positive mail about LindaTripp. ''	   But doesn't the public's refusal to condemn Clinton signal somekind of moral collapse? Eppie, whose own marriage ended in divorcein 1975, said: ``People are much more willing to forgive now.  Theyare more permissive.  They are more realistic. 
 Not all husbands are faithful . . .  I've been doing this 43years.  The country has been going in this direction for some time. I don't think it's just the Clintons.  We're getting to be moreforgiving as a people.  It's a good thing. ''	   Eppie also dismissed the notion that the nation's children hadbeen scarred by the nonstop talk of oral sex and adultery: ``It'sawfully hard to shock a kid above 8 years of age in this countryunless they're living in a glass bubble. 
 I knew more than myparents thought I knew. '' Eppie attributes today's kids' knowledgeabout sex to TV.  She grew up in pre-TV Sioux City, Iowa, but herfather, Abe Friedman, owned theaters, among them a burlesque house. ``That's where my sister'' _ her twin, Pauline, who writes therival ``Dear Abby'' column _ ``and I got our sex education.  We were15 years old and the girls in the chorus were 16 years old.  We hungout backstage because we liked them.  We talked to them a lot, andwe heard PLENTY. ''	   In other words, I asked, you don't find the Clinton scandalsparticularly momentous? Eppie abruptly got up, went to an adjoiningroom and came back with a big scrapbook.  In it were photos of hervisit with American soldiers in a Saigon hospital in 1967. 
 ``This is whatcounts _ not this other kind of stuff about Linda Tripp.  Who caresabout Linda Tripp? The American people are pretty solid, they'repretty savvy, and they know what's important.  That's why they'renot screaming and yelling about Bill Clinton and some of thesefemales. '' Then Eppie put down the scrapbook to offer some advice. ``This,'' she said, ``is where you should end your column. '' NYT19980407. 0293  NEWS STORY  04/07/1998 19:18:00 ANONYMOUS TRIBAL ARTISANS? LOOK AGAIN	   As a freshman in college some 30 years ago, I was a literaturemajor with a problem: I had a token science requirement to fulfill. The solution? I took a course titled ``Primitive Art. '' It wastaught by the anthropology department, and classes were held in thelocal museum of natural history, where African sculptures werejumbled in with geological specimens and stuffed birds. 
 Today,more often than not, they've found a home in art museums.  Africanart as a field of study is listed under art history, and no fieldof research is more stimulating or innovative.  And none carries soheavy a burden of misconceptions. 	   One of these has to do with the identity of African artists. Colonial collectors rarely took note of who carved the spectacularstatues and masks they shipped back to Europe. 	   Modern ethnology, with which the study of African art stilloverlaps, concentrates on social traditions and belief systemsrather than things, and seldom has an eye out for authorship. 	   For whatever reason, the idea has long been current in the Westthat anonymity in art was a cultural norm in Africa.  By thisthinking, African art is a collective, tribal phenomenon ratherthan a vehicle for individual expression, and objects of a specifictype are _ making allowances for varying degrees of skill _interchangeable. 	   This view is being challenged head-on by two exhibitions, one inWashington and the other at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NewYork. 
	   Of the two exhibitions, ``Olowe of Ise: A Yoruba Sculptor toKings'' at the National Museum of African Art, SmithsonianInstitution is, by its very nature, the more closely focused. Organized by Roslyn A.  Walker, director of the museum, it is aretrospective of a single sculptor who was born around 1875, anddied around 1938. 	   One-person shows of Africa artists are rare (the MetropolitanMuseum's ``Buli Master'' show, organized by Susan Vogel in 1980, isone of the few other examples).  And Ms.  Walker's exhibition istruly precedent setting in being accompanied by a catalogueraisonne of Olowe's work, the first major scholarly publication ofits kind ever devoted to a traditional African artist. 	   As the book itself suggests, biographical data on Olowe of Ise(pronounced o-lo-way of EE-say) is scant, mostly found in local``praise songs'' composed in his honor and passed down orallythrough his descendants, or in chance scraps of informationrecorded by colonial visitors. 	   He was born in southwestern Nigeria of Yoruba people, the ethnicgroups from which many African-Americans are descended.  He spentmost of his life working in the court center of Ise, though he tookcommissions from clients as far as 60 miles away. 
	   Olowe gained attention in Europe when an elaborate palace doorhe had made was displayed in the British Empire Exhibition of 1927and later acquired by the British Museum.  After World War II, anEnglish official saw a picture of the door and related itsdistinctive style to work he had encountered in Nigeria.  He alertedthe ethnographer William B.  Fagg to his discovery, thus setting inmotion the investigation that has culminated in Ms.  Walker's show. 	   The British Museum door is not in Washington for the exhibition,which runs through Sept.  7, but two others by Olowe are, eachcarved with reliefs of dozens of figures arranged in horizontalbands.  The first door depicts the everyday bustle of court life:the ruler, short but commanding, appears accompanied by two wives,one wearing a European-style top hat.  A band of eager-to-pleasemusicians serenades him from above; a wrestling match is inprogress below. 
 Here two cultures, closelyobserved, come together.  Ambrose, a childlike figure in acricketing cap, is toted in on a litter from the left.  The king, aprepossessing presence in a towering crown, arrives on a horse fromthe right and greets his guest with a magisterially upraised hand. 	   Many of the characteristics of Olowe's personal style are here:the unusually high relief carving, deep-cut and verging on thethree-dimensional; figures with limbs modeled and flexed to give animpression of movement, and surfaces inflected with painterlychipping and faceting. 	   All of these features are also found in the extraordinaryveranda posts that Olowe produced for his royal patrons.  Whereother artists working with this form carved their stacked-upfigures face-front and locked within the column, Olowe often twiststhem in different directions, sets their limbs free in space andenlivens them with personable details: a young king has the sweet,alert face of a gazelle; a hunter, rifle in hand, wears his hair ina thick braid, which curves out behind him like a bow. 	   Even more radical is the way Olowe plays with visual and socialconventions.  In several sculptures he reverses or blends genderroles, giving male figures women's hairdos and dressing them in thebeaded girdles worn by brides. 	   Why he did so is a mystery, but one can assume that, like anyinventive artist intent on making a name for himself, he upsetexpectations both to arrest the eye and to keep his publicwondering what on earth he would be up to next. 
	   The bowls have none of the monumental flair of Olowe's posts anddoors, but they are his most frequently imitated work and areunmistakable reminders of his self-consciously virtuosic andoriginal presence. 	   Originality is also the subject of ``Master Hand: Individualityand Creativity Among Yoruba Sculptors,'' a compact think piece ofan exhibition at the Met, organized by Alisa LaGamma, assistantcurator for the department of the arts of Africa, Oceania and theAmericas. 	   A visual essay on the question of authorship in African art, itexpands beyond the crucial figure of Olowe to touch on numerousother Yoruba artists whose work can be identified either throughstyle or documentation. 	   One of them, Areogun (circa 1880-1954), was Olowe's nearcontemporary.  A door carved by him is installed for purposes ofstylistic comparison in the Washington show, and the signatureimage of figures zipping around on bicycles seen there can also bespotted on a large divination bowl at the Met as part of a tableauof human and animals forms woven together in a vibrant chain ofactivity. 	   Most of the other artists in ``Master Hand'' were born, likeOlowe and Areogun, in the late 19th century and died in the 20th. And collectively their work attests to the endlessly inventivesophistication of Yoruba art, with its startling interweaving oftradition and modernity. 	   That blend is everywhere.  One sees it in a headdress, attributedto Onabanjo, carrying a whole community of figures and touched withbaroque flourishes suggesting New World influences carried back toAfrica by returning slaves. 
 And again in the little dance mask with movable arms,begun by the sculptor Fagbite Asamu in 1930 and completed fourdecades later by his son Falola Edun. 	   Directly across from the vitrine holding this mask is a videomonitor playing 1971 footage of Falola Edun finishing his work onit and then of the mask being worn in a dance, its role as a pieceof public art finally realized. 	   Seeing both the Yoruba artist and the sculpture he made ``live''on tape is very moving, and serves as reminder of the restorative,vivifiying impulse that lies behind the two exhibitions themselves. 	   The Met supplemented ``Master Hand,'' which runs through July12, with a symposium in February on the question of authorship inAfrica art.  Among the speakers many individual voices sounded,including that of Olabiyi Babalola Yai from the University ofMiami, one of the many Yoruba scholars who are documenting andinterpreting their own art. 	   And appropriately, artists were on hand.  The Nigerian sculptorLamidi Fakeye, who had given a carving demonstration in the museumthe day before, was in the audience.  The symposium was rounded outwith the appearance of three contemporary Western artists _ JoseBedia, Arturo Lindsay and Manuel Vega _ all of whom live in theUnited States, but draw on Yoruba-derived African-Caribbeanreligious traditions in their art. 	   It was an absorbing, exhausting day, one packed with freshinformation, contentious ideas (one scholar suggested that theissue of determining authorship in African art was a Westernobsession geared to museums and markets), and, inevitably, with newmisconceptions that only further research will set straight. 
. 
